








        Alyssa Powell/Business Insider
      

Black Friday falls on November 29 this year, but if you're looking for great deals on gifts or items for yourself, you won't have to wait until after Thanksgiving to find them. Online marketplace eBay is rolling out a bunch of amazing deals every Friday up until Black Friday — and for a few weeks after.Now until December 13, eBay will launch "Friday Drops" on new and trending items at hard-to-beat prices. The specific prices are unveiled on the date of each sale, and we'll be updating the pricing information here to make it easy to shop.Keep in mind that this is only some of what you can expect. There will be plenty of other deals on everything from tech and electronics to home goods, apparel, and accessories. If you have big plans to travel in 2020, this three-piece luggage set by Samsonite is exactly what you might need to prepare for all your trips, no matter how long or short they are. The set includes 20-inch, 25-inch, and 29-inch hard shell suitcases.  Dyson isn't only known for its vacuum cleaners.The brand's Supersonic hairdryer is extremely popular among hairstylists as it prevents extreme heat damage and protects your hair's natural shine while efficiently drying quicker than other blow dryers.As an early Black Friday deal, you can save $180 on a refurbished unit. All refurbished units have been tested to perform like new and comes with a 12-month Dyson Official guarantee. Read our review of the Supersonic in our guide to the best hair dryers.Every home theater or living room should have an Ultra HD TV and now is the perfect time to upgrade.This 50-inch Samsung Smart TV features a brilliant 4K resolution, Wi-Fi, and all your favorite streaming apps. This is also the 2019 model, so you're getting the latest version of the TV at a steep discount.Who wouldn't want an electric scooter for the holidays? The Razor E100 Scooter is a fun and way for kids and adults like to cruise around the neighborhood and with a top speed of 10 miles per hour, it's got enough power for those with a need for speed. With eight different colors to choose from, you'll be able to find an e-scooter in your favorite color.Pulled straight from Adidas' vaults, the Kamanda is a 1980s design experiment that never saw the light of day until recently.Inspired by soccer culture, the shoes have a soft nubuck upper and a textured rubber outsole that extends up the sides of the shoes. Available in white and grey colors, these are a nice pair of sneakers to add to any collection. Modeled after the Audi TT RS supercar, this 6-volt electric car will have your little ones riding in style.The realistic design features LED headlights, a built-in horn, and an AUX outlet to listen to music while driving. You can let your kids drive manually or you can control the car via remote control. Dull knives are both unsafe and a huge hassle to use in the kitchen. Rather than dealing with worn-out knives, this 15-piece cutlery set from Cuisinart is a worthwhile upgrade.It includes a chef's knife, slicing knife, santoku knife, serrated utility knife, paring knife, bird's beak paring knife, six steak knives, a sharpening steel, all-purpose household shears, and a storage block for organization.Ray-Ban Wayfarers are one of the most recognizable and classic sunglasses styles you can wear and at more than 65% off, this is one Black Friday deal you don't want to pass up. The black plastic frame comes fitted with crystal-green UV-blocking lenses. Having a powerful computer is imperative to PC gaming and this laptop from HP Pavilion has everything you need for top performance in the virtual world. It features a 15.6-inch full HD screen, 8GB of RAM, 256GB of storage space, and backlit keyboard.Nautica Blue has a fresh aquatic scent that most people regardless of gender will find appealing and as an eau de toilette, it isn't too overpowering like some eau de parfums.  Return policies on eBay differ for each seller or item. Be sure to check the listing for the specific return policy on the item you're purchasing.Early Black Friday deals and all other items listed on the Deals page on eBay will ship for free. In total, 72% of all items listed on eBay ship for free in the US, UK, and Germany.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.