Jaclyn Hill is officially back to selling makeup — and this time, she's more confident than ever.On Thursday, the YouTuber shared a video with fans announcing that her beauty brand, Jaclyn Cosmetics, will be releasing a holiday collection of highlighters. At the start of her video, Hill also discussed the disastrous lipstick launch her brand faced in June.Not only did she describe the experience as a "wake-up call," but she also said it taught her to be OK if her new makeup "barely sells.""For today's video, I am feeling so many emotions right now," Hill said at the start of her video. "I am so beyond excited, I feel so confident, yet so nervous at the exact same time."She went on to explain that she's had a "really hard year," and has spent much of her time feeling "so humiliated" after the June launch of her first beauty product: lipsticks. At the time, many customers complained that they received broken products that caused swelling and bumps on the lips.Still, Hill noted that despite the backlash, she's "never been more thankful for anything," as she "learned so much" throughout the experience."I truly believe in the depths of my soul that I was put through that situation for a reason because I had a major wake-up call — like major," Hill said.After opening up about her previous launch, Hill's tone changed from nervous to confident."It's not just makeup to me," Hill said. "It's more than makeup. I'm gonna keep going and I'm not gonna stop until I say that it's time to stop. I'm in control of my own destiny.""I have over 20 new people on my team," she continued. "If this collection barely sells, that's OK. But once the people who do buy it get it in their hands, you guys are gonna die because it's so damn good."On Twitter, Hill has used her account to speak with fans directly regarding the future of Jaclyn Cosmetics.For example, Hill thanked one person for supporting her despite receiving criticism from others.The YouTuber also addressed a Twitter user who said they've lost trust in her products.  Representatives for Jaclyn Hill and Jaclyn Cosmetics did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
