Looking to better understand Alzheimer's and its deep, emotional impact? A new ad campaign, structured as a podcast miniseries and made in collaboration between the Alzheimer's Association, the Ad Council, WNYC Studios, and Facebook Creative Shop, could be your answer. Together, they're launching "The Alzheimer's Listenline," a digital take on help hotlines. Each podcast episode will feature the story from a different public figure with a personal connection to Alzheimer’s. Every three- to five-minute mini-episode will be hosted by Glynn Washington, the host of NPR's Snap Judgment. Episodes will include stories from Community actor Yvette Nicole Brown, MSNBC anchor Richard Lui, and others. The stories told focus on each speaker's relationship with a loved one diagnosed with Alzheimer's, as well as the diagnosis process. The series hopes to inform listeners about the benefits of early Alzheimer’s diagnosis, according to an announcement from the partnering teams. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that Alzheimer's disease, a form of dementia, affects an estimated 5.7 million Americans. For 90 percent of those with Alzheimer's, symptoms don't appear until after the age of 60, according to the CDC.  SEE ALSO: Elon Musk's comments on autism prove he should not podcastA 2019 report from the Alzheimer's Association notes that Alzheimer's disease is thought to begin 20 years before symptoms become apparent. As the Alzheimer's Association explains on its website, an early diagnosis can mean access to treatment (though Alzheimer's remains irreversible), the ability to plan for the future, and savings in long-term medical care.  The episodes will be rolled out via Instagram and Facebook "call to action" ads. Although these ads typically connect listeners to local businesses, this use of the feature will allow people using the apps to listen to the entire selection of stories in the "Listenline" series, with a swipe or a tap. In addition, all episodes will be available on the "Listenline" website. 