AdvertisementSupported byHow to mitigate the most egregious abuses and instill more confidence in the platforms’ commitments to election integrity.By Daniel Kreiss and Matt PeraultDr. Kreiss is a principal researcher at the University of North Carolina Center for Information, Technology, and Public Life. Mr. Perault is a former director of public policy at Facebook.Twitter announced the details of its new political advertising policy on Friday, and once it goes into effect this month, politicians won’t be able to run false ads on Twitter. But they also won’t be able to run ads that correct the spread of misinformation.Oil and gas companies will be able to continue promoting fossil fuels, but environmental advocacy organizations won’t be able to run ads supporting a carbon tax. And when President Trump tweets about the strength of the economy or about alleged corruption by a political opponent, no opposition candidate can run an ad on Twitter to counter the enormous organic reach of the person holding the highest elected office in the country.During the 2020 election cycle, on a platform that is one of the greatest technological innovations in free expression in our lifetimes, candidates won’t be able to use ads to speak their views on political issues or gain access to wider audiences, and advocacy organizations won’t be able to use ads to push for legislative changes. (Twitter will allow ads related to social causes such as climate change, gun control and abortion, though these ads will be subject to restrictions on targeting.) They can do these things with TV ads. Or radio ads. Or newspaper ads. Or Facebook ads. But they won’t be able to do them on Twitter.Political advertising has long been controversial, but broad bans on digital platforms will harm our democratic process by silencing voices and reducing the range of views that reach voters. Digital advertising plays a particularly important role in political communication in an era of heightened media choice and fragmented public attention. Tech platforms have greatly lowered the costs of running political advertising. No longer do candidates need to invest significant sums of time and money to produce and buy 30-second television spots or take out full-page ads in newspapers.A recent research paper by leading political advertising scholars found that a more diverse array of candidates advertises on Facebook than on television, particularly down-ballot candidates and challengers to incumbents. Other research has found that digital political advertising has the potential to increase voting, especially among young voters harder to reach through mass media. Candidates run digital political ads to find voters, convert them into donors and volunteers, and to mobilize them on Election Day.Political advertising also has undeniable downsides, including meaningful social costs when powerful people distribute messages meant to inflame or confuse, or to dissuade the electorate from voting. While digital political ads have the power to mobilize, they also have the potential to polarize. Look no further than the president’s re-election campaign’s “invasion” ads on Facebook.Instead of Twitter’s overly broad and ill-conceived blanket ban on political ads, and confusing restrictions on issue ads, it could have considered four common-sense changes to political advertising that would help to mitigate some of the most egregious abuses and instill more confidence in the platforms’ stated commitments to election integrity. Facebook still has time to do so. These are proposals that we developed together (based on Matt’s experience working at Facebook and Daniel’s decade of research on digital campaigning).First, instead of banning political ads entirely, platforms should not permit “data opacity” for political ads and should have clear enforcement mechanisms for violations of targeting policies. Facebook allows advertisers to bring their own data to their platforms for targeting purposes, and Twitter has similar tools for commercial ads. For example, a car dealer can bring a list of potential customers to Facebook, and then target Facebook ads to those people. The advertiser provides a hashed list of individuals — meaning that they are de-identified and the platform has no visibility into who is on the list or why.What might be largely innocuous for commercial speech has significant potential harm for politics. While it might be democratically desirable for the N.A.A.C.P. to be able to target African-Americans in a voter registration drive, the same systems allow bad actors to potentially generate lists of racists to mobilize and target people of color to dissuade them from voting. So even though Facebook aims to promote social cohesion, it’s easy to run ads that intend to create social division when companies don’t see the data that advertisers bring to the platform.To prevent this, platforms could end the practice of allowing advertisers to bring external data to their ad systems entirely. The downside is that this would eliminate good uses of these tools in addition to the troubling ones.Alternatively, platforms could require political advertisers to move away from data opacity and toward data transparency by permitting only certain types of verified targeting lists, such as lists of all registered voters of a certain party in a certain district. More transparency would incentivize good practice, and platforms could take steps to verify audience lists and perform random audits to improve enforcement and ensure accountability.Second, targeting categories — and the advertising auctions and algorithms that deliver ads based on those categories — should not make it easy for advertisers to undermine the platforms’ own stated goals, whether it is Facebook’s desire for social cohesion or Twitter’s goal of healthy discourse. Just as all major platform companies have voluntarily put in place verification processes for political advertising and created political digital ad archives, instead of banning political ads they can set further limits on the categories political advertisers can target (such as geographic region, interests, ideology, race and ethnicity, or gender). Platforms could review their existing categories to ensure they do not enable targeting that can undermine their missions, circumvent community standards or is likely to facilitate illegal activity.Third, platforms should introduce product solutions that facilitate counter-speech. For instance, when a platform publishes a political ad in its ad archive, it could enable verified rival campaigns to publish ads to the exact same audience. This approach would be a privacy-protective way of ensuring that there is an opportunity for counter-speech, since platforms could enable the functionality without passing audience details or strategic information to rival campaigns.Finally, companies repeatedly state that political advertising doesn’t have a material effect on their bottom line. If that’s the case, instead of banning political ads they should put their political advertising money where their mouth is, and commit to donating all revenue from political advertising to nonprofits and researchers focused on election integrity. Or invest that money directly in the development and improvement of their election integrity products.In the face of intense pressure by the press, activists and policymakers, tech platforms should resist blunt solutions that greatly narrow the possibilities for expression for those vying for public office and contesting public issues. Blanket bans on political ads especially harm those without pre-existing large audiences and challengers to established elites. By putting changes in place that shine a spotlight on targeting practices, we can address some of the worst abuses of political ads technologies, while also leaving space for speech that’s critical for a robust democracy.Daniel Kreiss is a principal researcher at the University of North Carolina Center for Information, Technology, and Public Life and an associate professor at the UNC Hussman School of Journalism and Media. Matt Perault is the director of Duke University’s Center for Science & Technology Policy and was formerly a director of public policy at Facebook.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement