For years now, there have been rumors floating around of an Xbox version of the Final Fantasy VII remake. Today, the box art for the game was updated with the date when PlayStation exclusivity ends. According to the images which are being shared on social media, it's coming to other platforms on March 3, 2012. The exclusivity only lasts a year it seems. Hopefully, the title will be optimized for Project Scarlett which is rumored to have 12 teraflops of power.You can take a look at the image Twitter user Wario64 posted. On the bottom right corner, you can see that it says exclusivity ends on "3/3/21." Looks like the rumors were correct after all. Given the fact that the Final Fantasy series is coming to Xbox Game Pass, Final Fantasy XIV is in the works for the system, and Final Fantasy XV sold quite well, it would've been a surprise had this title not landed on Microsoft's console.Final Fantasy VII Remake box art updated with timed exclusive disclaimer - until March 3, 2021 pic.twitter.com/IGL0f5dbBbAre you going to play the game on PlayStation 4 or are you going to wait for the Xbox One version? Let us know. However, keep in mind that 2021 is a while away so new deals could be inked in the meantime. Let's hope that it lands on Xbox One and doesn't just hit PC because anything is possible in the competitive gaming industry.So, how big is the Xbox Series X? Our 3D interactive size comparison offers the best look yet at how the Xbox Series X stacks up to its closest current contemporaries.With adjustable warm lighting and subtle design tweaks, the Kindle Oasis 2019 is a great upgrade to a fantastic e-reader.After rolling out to several other countries first, Samsung has now begun rolling out the stable version of Android 10 to Galaxy S10 users in the U.S. and Canada.Android phones are the perfect platform for puzzle games. We've collected some of our favorite games that offer a stylish and challenging experience!Sign up now to be notified of the latest news, rumors, & more