Catch up on the most important news from today in two minutes or less.TV people are tooting and Google is diluting, but first, a cartoon about a sticky climate change problem.Here's the news you need to know, in two minutes or less.Want to receive this two-minute roundup as an email every weekday? Sign up here!With #Fartgate, Twitter was a gas once againLast night during an interview with US representative Eric Swalwell on Hardball on the ongoing impeachment hearings against President Trump, what can only be described as a fart sound ripped through the airwaves. And with it, an internet tsunami. Within 12 minutes the clip was up on Twitter, and for a little while the internet came together to ignore the terrifying news cycle and gather 'round the great unifier: the objective hilarity of a fart.Google shakes up its 'TGIF'—and ends its culture of opennnessLast week, Google employees received an email from CEO Sundar Pichai outlining his plan to cut back the company’s defining all-hands meeting known as TGIF to once a month, adding that the meetings would stick only to “product and business strategy.” The email was a signal of a shattered dream that a tech company can exude openness and idealism while simultaneously growing and scaling.That's how many encrypted websites are preloaded into Smarter Encryption, a new tool put out by privacy-forward search engine DuckDuckGo. The tool will automatically push you to the encrypted versions of the websites you search for, increasing your privacy and safety on the internet. While other tools can do this also, most of those have preloaded lists of about 150,000, decreasing your likelihood you'll reach an encrypted site from the start.It's time to start thinking about gifts for everyone in your life, and we know how daunting that task can be. So our reviewers came together to save you the trouble and created a master list of the 52 things you'll want to give (or maybe even keep for yourself!) this year.Here's how to keep hackers out of your Facebook and Twitter accounts.This daily roundup is available as a newsletter. You can sign up right here to make sure you get the news delivered fresh to your inbox every weekday!WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.More From WIREDContact© 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18) and Your California Privacy Rights. Wired may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices