2019 is officially the year of Lizzo and her bold fashion choices. The 31-year-old superstar, who was named Time's entertainer of the year on Wednesday, was photographed by Paola Kudacki wearing a cape from Greek fashion designer Mary Katrantzou. Lizzo's look was pulled together with a pair of Manolo Blahnik shoes and Almasika earrings.Insider spoke to Katrantzou who revealed that Lizzo is actually wearing the $37,000 "imagination cape" from her Spring/Summer 2020 collection backwards. 








        Lizzo wore a Mary Katrantzou cape, Manolo Blahnik shoes, and Almasika earrings on Time.
      
Paola Kudacki/Time

The cape Lizzo is wearing, along with the rest of Katrantzou's collection, was inspired by Ancient Greece in 500 BC. The front of the garment features symbols for the ideas of alchemy, biology, theology, and philosophy. "If you look at the front of the cape, it has all of these ideas embroidered, coming together," Katrantzou said. "The back of the cape symbolizes all of these ideas coming to the center."








        The front of the cape Lizzo is wearing features symbolic embroidery of Ancient Greece.
      
German Larkin/Mary Katrantzou

Despite the steep price of $37,000, Katrantzou explained that 50% of the proceeds from all the pieces sold in her latest collection will be donated to the ELPIDA Association of Friends of Children with Cancer. Having Lizzo wear the cape on the Time cover, and the "Cornucopia" cape for the inside spread, was a full-circle moment for Katrantzou because she designed the collection for everyone and anyone. "Designing this collection, I consciously wanted to create pieces that could be on any size model on the runway," Katrantzou said. "I think, for me, for this specific look to be on Lizzo is the best crystallization of our intention. I design pieces that can be worn by any size, by any age, and by any gender."Katrantzou admitted that she is also inspired by the "Truth Hurts" singer. "She is a representation of women that are larger than life in their personality, in their talent, in everything," she said. "It's not a question of size as much as it is a question about experiences that have made you who you are. I think it's really wonderful to see her blossom."Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
