A New Zealand man has been convicted of murdering British backpacker Grace Millane after a Tinder date last December. But it's still illegal to report his identity.The 27-year-old man was found guilty of strangling Millane to death on Friday, the BBC and Associated Press (AP) reported.He had repeatedly denied murder, claiming that she died by accident after she asked him to choke her during consensual sex.He is due to be sentenced in February 2020. He is likely to receive a life sentence, which comes with a non-parole period of at least ten years, the AP said.








        A photo of Millane displayed ahead of a press conference in Auckland in December 2018.
      
Hannah Peters/Getty Images

The man's name has been suppressed by the New Zealand legal system since last year after his lawyer convinced a judge that anonymity was needed for a fair trial.The restriction follows a principle in the law of New Zealand, which also exists in closely-related systems like those of the UK and Australia, that sometimes reporting of jury trials should be restricted in order to make sure the jurors reach their verdict only on the evidence given in court.US courts do not have this rule.Newspapers in New Zealand and in Millane's home, the UK, have not reported his name since. International news outlets have also respected the ban.Earlier this year the New Zealand government criticized Google for featuring the man's name in search results. It is still possible to surface old media reports which include the man's identity.The media ban on naming the man could be lifted when he is sentenced, but that is not guaranteed.








        Surveillance-camera footage of Millane and her killer on the night she died.
      
Auckland High Court via Simon Atkinson/Twitter

Here is a summary of the case:








        The New Zealand man convicted of killing Millane transports two suitcases into his hotel elevator on December 2, 2018. Prosecutors said Millane's body was in one of them.
      
Auckland High Court via MailOnline










        A candlelight vigil for Millane on December 12, 2018.
      
Mark Baker/AP

Millane's parents cried as the man was convicted at the end of the three-week trial.David Millane, Grace's father, told reporters after the trial that the family's friends and relatives would welcome the verdict, but "it will not reduce the pain and suffering we have had to endure over the past year.""Grace was taken in the most brutal fashion a year ago and our lives have been ripped apart," he said.








        Gillian and David Millane, Grace's parents, speak outside the Auckland High Court on November 22, 2019.
      
Jason Oxenham/New Zealand Herald via AP

Hundreds of people across New Zealand came together to mourn Millane's death.The country's prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, apologized to Millane's family last year, saying: "Your daughter should have been safe here and she wasn't and I'm sorry for that."Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
