Updated 11/29/19 at 2:15 p.m.Wayfair is one of the internet's largest and most affordable home goods stores, and has great deals on any day of the year, but its prices get even better on Black Friday.Right now on Black Friday, you'll find discounts of up to 80% off on everything from area rugs to decor. Wayfair is offering flash deals all day, and free shipping on everything with no minimums.Wayfair's brands like AllModern, Birch Lane, Perigold, and Joss & Main are also seeing discounts of up to 80% off for Black Friday.Everything from Perigold is up to 25% off today. AllModern is up to 70% off, including an extra 25% off on big purchases like sofas with the promo code "BIGDEAL" at checkout. Birch Lane is also offering an extra 25% off with the promo code "SAVEBIG" at checkout. Joss & Main is up to 80% off.








        Save over $900 on the Norah Sofa from AllModern during Wayfair's Black Friday sale.
      
AllModern

Yes, Wayfair has Black Friday deals. All of Wayfair's Black Friday deals are live now. Yes, Wayfair has Cyber Monday deals. We'll also be curating the best Wayfair deals on Cyber Monday when they're announced.According to shopping experts, the best deals across all retailers will be on the following products: TVs, smart home devices, gaming consoles, video games, and kitchen appliances. But Wayfair is an exception to that rule with discounts of up to 75% on big-ticket items such as mattresses and furniture, especially when you factor in free shipping for large, bulky items. 








        Alyssa Powell/Business Insider
      

Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.