Alicia Keys said more people should embrace their "masculine and feminine energies" after describing how her 4-year-old son told her he didn't want to wear his rainbow manicure anymore.The singer, who has been outspoken about impossible beauty standards, posted a video on Instagram on Saturday where she spoke of her frustration during a recent trip to the nail salon with her son Genesis.
Been thinking about how over labeled and over judged we all are... can u feel me??A post shared by  Alicia Keys (@aliciakeys) on Nov 9, 2019 at 5:43pm PSTNov 9, 2019 at 5:43pm PST
In the video, captioned "Less Labels, More Expressions," the singer said her young son was excited to get his nails painted."So he tells the lady that he wants rainbow colors on his nails, and she brings all of these colors, and she paints each nail a different color," she said. "And after she painted his nails, he looked at me, he said, 'Mommy, I don't want this on my nails.'"Keys continued: "And I was like, 'Why? You were so sure. You were good.' And he was like, 'People are not going to like it.' Can you believe this? Four years old. He's 4! And he already understands the concept that someone's going to judge him because he chose rainbow colors on his nails."








        "He's 4!" Keys said in the Instagram video.
      
Alicia Keys / Instagram

Keys said she encouraged her son to "stick with it," adding: "You chose it. You liked it. You do it. Who cares what anybody else says?"She told Genesis that "a lot of guys paint their nails," and she said her son felt a lot better.A post shared by  Alicia Keys (@aliciakeys) on Aug 28, 2019 at 2:23pm PDTAug 28, 2019 at 2:23pm PDT
Directly addressing her 17 million Instagram followers, Keys said she hopes more people will think less about gender stereotyping and instead explore their "masculine and feminine energies.""It gets concerning to me that we can't just explore these different sides of ourselves," she said."I oftentimes express the masculine energy that's inside of me," she said, adding: "All the time, if that happens, there's the judgments, and there's the stereotypes, and there's all the energy that comes toward that."And for my boys, you know, similar. If they want to express the feminine energy that's inside of them, there's all these judgments and all these rules and stereotypes and vibes."It's really frustrating to me. I'm actually really, really frustrated about it."A post shared by  Alicia Keys (@aliciakeys) on May 12, 2019 at 9:39am PDTMay 12, 2019 at 9:39am PDT
Keys finished the video by asking her followers what they think. The responses were overwhelmingly positive, with many praising her parenting style.One follower wrote: "This kid. This expression. This parenting. This thinking. THIS is the stuff that will change the world. For the better."Another said: "I loved your feedback to him. So beautiful."Keys' husband, the music producer Swizz Beatz, wrote: "He's a young King and he can explore and express his creativity at anytime! We support it as his parents."Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
