XPO Logistics was in a slump.In February, its largest customer, largely understood to be Amazon, reduced its business with XPO by two-thirds, slashing an estimated $600 million from XPO's 2019 revenues. A recession also took hold of America's trucking industry this year, alongside a slowdown in manufacturing. Freight volumes were down in October for the 11th consecutive month, according to the most recent report from Cass Information Systems. Truckload rates have also sunk for three consecutive months since August; last month, they were down 2.5% year over year. Given all that, XPO's stock hit $46 a share in early March, hovering around $50 to $60 a share through July. Now things are looking up. Investors have pushed XPO's stock higher and higher, hitting a 12-month high of $86 a share this week. And the logistics-equity research team at Citi thinks it might go even higher. After a November 11 visit to XPO's headquarters in Greenwich, Connecticut, the team headed by Christian Weatherbee wrote in a note to investors that it was increasing XPO's target to $100 a share. The team added that it could jump to as high as $200 through 2022."While we think it's too early to really underwrite the Bull case for XPO, it's worth noting the potential," Citi's logistics-equity team wrote in the November 12 note. 








        Jacobs talks to company driver Antoine Seegars.
      
AP/Tony Ding

 "Management believes (middle single-digit) revenue growth and margin expansion is the base case in a stable macro environment," the team added. "In addition, XPO has a 2022 target to increase profit by $700 million to $1 billion. Taken together, we believe there is a path toward $3 billion in annual EBITDA, which has the potential to drive XPO shares toward $200 over the next two-plus years."XPO, which is helmed by CEO and "serial dealmaker" Brad Jacobs, ranked No. 1 on Transport Topics' list of the country's largest logistics players. The company employs some 100,000 people in 32 countries and raked in more than $17 billion in revenue last year.Logistics is an industry that's infamously sluggish to innovation — many truck drivers still find loads to transport by calling, emailing, and even faxing, though several buzzy new startups are seeking to overhaul that. For that reason, XPO's tech-driven "10 initiative strategy" to boost profitability by $700 million to $1 billion by 2022 could be seen as especially impressive. Jacobs is a notable mergers-and-acquisitions kingpin, but Citi wrote that the CEO is looking to focus more on internal measures to increase profitability in the coming years. 








        Scott Olson/Getty Images
      

Four key initiatives are essential to XPO's cost-efficiency strategy, Citi wrote:While other research teams haven't sounded the alarm on a potential $200 share price, other big banks are confident about XPO's technology platform. In September, XPO hosted its first Tech Summit in Boston, which was heavily attended by investors looking to learn more about Jacobs' growing transportation empire. Deutsche Bank's freight research team, headed by Amit Mehrotra, said it was the "best investor/analyst events we've attended in several years."








        Tony Ding/AP Images for XPO Logistics
      

Morgan Stanley's freight-transportation-equity team also approved of the tech focus — particularly as Jacobs began to focus on how it could boost internal operations over simply optimizing acquisitions. XPO has acquired 17 major organizations, according to Crunchbase, the largest of which was the Ann Arbor, Michigan-based LTL carrier Con-way."The role of technology within XPO has evolved over the years," Morgan Stanley's team, headed by Ravi Shanker, wrote in a September note. "Initially, tech was effectively used for integrating its roll up transactions. Now, technology has become a weapon to gain share and improve returns.""Technology is not just lip-service, it is part of the fabric of XPO," Shanker added.XPO's competitors, many of which are older family-run companies, are making heavy inroads on technology spend. A new group of freight startups like Convoy, and entrants from tech giants like Uber and Amazon, are likely driving that. America's largest freight broker, C.H. Robinson, announced in September that it would double its technology spend over the next five years — hitting $1 billion. This week, it landed the No. 9 spot on the FreightTech 25 — an annual list from FreightWaves ranking the most innovative companies in logistics. Meanwhile, some insiders say J.B. Hunt's brokerage app, J.B. Hunt 360, is the industry leader in brokerage technology. The 58-year-old Arkansas-based company scored No. 4 on the FreightTech 25, which is the highest of any "traditional" logistics company.