There's a lot of bad nutrition advice out there, so let's set the record straight. Alkaline water is not necessarily any better than what comes out of the tap. Energy drinks and special power bars are likely not conferring any performance advantages over run-of-the-mill processed junk foods. And juice may not be much better for you, health-wise, than soda.Still, there are a few trendy ways to take care of your body that actually make sense. Here are 11 of the most sound pieces of nutrition advice we learned in 2019. For decades, big sugar lobbies and food giants hid the science on how sugar can overload the liver, and up the odds a person may develop heart issues, diabetes, or even die an early death. The evidence now points to a harsher truth.Sugar, no matter if it's added or natural, is not great for our waistlines or our hearts. Liquid sugars, like sodas and even all-natural juices, may be some of the worst. Cutting back on sugary drinks, and other sources of hidden sugar lurking in our diets — from yogurt to salad dressings — is a wise move. A person's microbiome is the complex mix of bacteria, viruses, and fungi that live inside the gut, and it's more than 2 million genes strong.To boost your microbiome, incorporate more fiber into your diet from foods like fruit, vegetables, nuts, seeds, whole grains, and fermented items."The more junk food you eat, the more [your microbiome] shrinks," King's College epidemiologist Tim Spector, who's leading a study tracking how the very same foods can affect people in different ways, told Business Insider. Skip the probiotic supplements, and just focus on getting ample plants in your diet, and eating more fermented foods like kefir and cheese.  Plants like leafy greens and seeds are great diet staples because they're high in fiber, and contain powerful phytochemicals that help keep us disease-free. Dandelions have plenty of vitamin A, which keeps our eyes and immune system in good form. (Just be careful if you're allergic to plants like ragweed or marigolds, as you might have a reaction to these greens.)Amaranth, a completely unprocessed whole grain that you can pick out of the garden, is also becoming a popular porridge staple. It's rich in iron, magnesium, fiber, as well as protein, and it is naturally gluten-free. Older adults who get enough protein in their diets, especially the kind that comes from plants, tend to show fewer signs of age-related chronic inflammation, which is associated with more diabetes diagnoses, heart issues, and cancer cases.Some doctors suggest that older adults should be getting 25 to 50% more protein than younger folks do in their diets. You can calculate your own daily recommended protein dose with this USDA calculator, but for most people (who aren't over 65), protein intake isn't anything to worry too much about. For example, a serving of Greek yogurt along with 3 ounces of chicken is almost enough for one day, or if you're vegetarian, a one cup scoopful of black beans is going to get you most of the way there. Scientists have fresh evidence that a bit of fasting now and then may be a good way to treat our guts, because there's evidence it can keep our cells healthy and prevent inflammation.Many celebrities are following a trendy 8-hour eating plan, whereby you fast for 16 hours a day, and eat during the remaining 8, while other nutrition pros say a 12 hour overnight fast is more than enough time for our gut to rest. "I would encourage everyone to revisit this snacking thing, like is there a way we can eat differently?" cancer researcher Dr. Miriam Merad said in August when her own study on fasting was released. "Maybe eating two times a day would be entirely sufficient and very beneficial, in fact, in terms of health." Blood glucose monitors, a novel way for diabetics to measure their insulin levels, are also gaining traction as a nutrition tool.Tim Spector, an epidemiologist and professor at King's College in London recently asked 1,100 adults in the US and UK to wear the glucose monitors as they ate the same common foods, and tracked his participants' glucose levels before and after meals. He was shocked to discover that no two individuals, even identical twins, had predictably similar reactions to different sugars and fats. "Just because some diet or recommendation is out there doesn't mean that you fit it," Spector told Business Insider in June, when his new research was released.Spector, along with many techies in Silicon Valley, often wears a glucose monitor. He's discovered that his body is more sensitive to blood sugar spikes after eating grapes and bread, and has cut back on those foods. He said he's lost 20 pounds in three years. A vegan eating plan helps boost the body's gut garden (the microbiome). A healthy microbiome helps absorb more nutrients from the food we eat, and can boost weight loss."Eating a plant-based diet with ample fiber changes the gut microbiome composition for the better by feeding the right kind of bacteria," Dr. Hana Kahleova, director of clinical research at the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, told MedScape Medical News when her study on vegan diets was released in September.  Going vegan can present other challenges for people, like how to get enough iron or vitamin B, but even upping your fresh veggie intake or skipping meat now and then can help. In New York City, all public schoolkids are now adhering to "meatless Mondays" in the nation's largest district, a tweak that aligns with recommendations from nutrition pros to limit red meat and dairy intake for a healthy heart.High-fat low-carb keto diets have been in fashion, in some form or another, since at least the 1860s, when a British funeral director first shunned starchy, sugary foods. Cardiologist Ethan Weiss cautions that the ketogenic diet approach is not for everyone, but says it can help some people maintain a healthy weight. Weiss follows what he calls a "healthy keto," with "things like nuts, or avocado, or olive oil, and fish like salmon or trout" playing a key role in his daily eating plan.The tricky part is being able to stick to such a restrictive, low-carb plan in the long run, and stay healthy, which is why it's important to consult a doctor and nutrition expert before attempting keto.Relying too much on protein-packed foods like red meat and cream, while not getting enough essential nutrients from plants can raise a keto dieter's odds of developing health problems like gout while putting extra stress on their kidneys.  One 2019 study even suggested that there may be ways to improve how people sleep by manipulating their gut microbiome, while other scientists caution that the link between the gut and the pillow is a complicated one that's still poorly understood. Most sleep experts agree that reserving around seven to eight hours a night for slumber, away from any buzzing smartphones, is a good place to start.  "Nutrition science has become such a low priority at NIH [the National Institutes of Health] that the agency earlier this year proposed closing the only facility on its campus for highly controlled nutrition studies," Politico's Catherine Boudreau and Helena Bottemiller Evich recently reported.A lack of rigorous lab research at the federal level means that often industry-funded studies fill the void, leading to lots of dodgy research. In general, though, any plan which cuts back on processed foods and encourages home-cooked fiber-rich meals tends to be a good choice for long-term health.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
