That was oddly familiar and equally upsetting. Final Score: 6-5 WildAfter the way the last two games went, both disappointing losses in very different ways, the Oilers needed a bounce back effort tonight against the Minnesota Wild, and they needed to lay their balls on the line to make sure that it happened. Show us how bad you want it, boys. The problem, though, is that the Minnesota Wild came into this thing with a 6-1-3 record over their last 10 games and that general hotness combined with the fact that they’ve been Oiler killers for a decade or more had me feeling more than nervous. Maybe it’s because the Oilers have struggled to find consistency over the past couple of weeks or because we’ve been hurt so many times before, but either way, I wasn’t feeling confident about the way this thing would play out and I was praying to the Hockey Gords that I would be wrong.So when the boys got off to a quick start and an early lead, my nerves calmed, my rum tasted a little bit sweeter, and I felt like we might finally be in line for a night of enjoyment. It was a simple dream but a beautiful one. Then, within five short minutes, the Wild evened the score with a lucky bounce goal and set themselves up to wrestle the lead away, which was exactly what they did in the dying seconds of the period. Once again, I could feel the rage bubbling up inside as I felt another game slipping away. The good news was that Leon Draisaitl tied the game up at two apiece early in the middle frame with that power play goal, and once again my hope was replenished and my spirits were high. The bad news was that Marcus Foligno wiped out Draisaitl’s marker with one of his own just over a minute later, and the even worse news was when Donato piled on with fourth Minnesota goal shortly after that. To say that things looked bleak would be the understatement of a lifetime, and I wasn’t sure that the boys had the jam to get themselves back into it.Heading into the third period down by two, I’ll be the first to admit that I was feeling dejected and had basically quit on this game even though there was still plenty of time left to go. Thankfully, the Oilers were feeling a hell of a lot more inspired than I was and they fought and clawed their way into a tie game with a pair of timely goals from Haas and McDavid. But just as they did when they tied the game up against Carolina, the Oilers let the wheels fall off and gave Minnesota all of the openings they needed to reclaim their lead and close things out. To put it another way, it was endlessly upsetting to watch the same movie twice in a row, if you know what I mean. That said, I’m also of the opinion that if you score five goals you should probably win the hockey game. Take that as you will.The wrap.Sam Gagner has a goal and six assists in his last nine games. Also been a healthy scratch six times in that span.— Rob Tychkowski (@Rob_Tychkowski) December 13, 2019If Minnesota gets up by two goals, prepare for a coma-inducing version of hockey that has you thanking your lucky stars you didn't buy a ticket to get into the rink.— Robin Brownlee (@Robin_Brownlee) December 13, 2019Me: It wouldn't bother me to see fighting gone from the NHLAlso me: *Watching a hockey fight pic.twitter.com/lbdR7jIA1g— Ross – Ken Netherlands (@tyrannosauross2) December 13, 2019Suck, tie it up, suck again. pic.twitter.com/nIvRLoAit6ATLEAST CALGARY GETS ANOTHER CHRISTMAS CARD TONIGHT @jsbmbaggedmilk— Casey Jones (@cweber10) December 13, 2019Put him in front of the other team's net on the power play and just let him tip pucks into that net instead.— StevenX (@StevenX_DFA) December 13, 2019Talk to me, Twitter. Tweet at @OilersnationHQ and @jsbmbaggedmilk for your chance to land in the Best of the Tweets.How could we not? Get your Bear Season tee exclusively at NationGear.ca.By baggedmilkFinal  1 - 4 VSPollThe Nation NetworkCopyright © 2019 The Nation Network Inc.Not a member? Join the NationPlease enter your email address to reset your password.