It can be a challenge to get into the New York University Stern School of Business if that's your institution of choice for business school — its most recent class sported an acceptance rate of just 26%, according to Lisa Rios, the executive director of MBA admissions.And it's easy to see why. NYU Stern sits at No. 13 in the country (out of 94 schools) in Bloomberg Businessweek's 2019 rating of the best business schools and took the No. 12 spot in US News and World Report's 2019 list and the No. 17 spot in The Economist's list of the top full-time MBA schools globally.Not to mention, notable graduates of the school include former Chair of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan, Charlie Scharf, the CEO of Wells Fargo, and Dan Schulman, the president and CEO of PayPal.As difficult as it may be to get accepted to NYU Stern, Business Insider has collected tips and advice from insiders who've been there before and seen it all. Learn what worked for these Stern grads and what you should do to boost your chances of getting into this auspicious school.In the application process, it's integral to focus on two main ingredients, said Andrew Kwan, a 2019 grad and supply-demand planner for Apple. "My application demonstrated a deep understanding of Stern's core values of passion, curiosity, and community and how the school's unique offerings would best supplement my goals," he noted.








        Andrew Kwan.
      
Andrew Kwan

Going into business school, Kwan wanted to make a career switch — he had worked in financial services in wealth management and wanted to ensure he was exposed to a range of new experiences.  "Stern's experiential course work, company visits, and networking opportunities allowed me a wide breadth of chances to really see where my MBA could take me," he said.Answering the question "What mark I would leave on the school?" is also helpful to think about. The impact Kwan wanted to leave at Stern related to the leadership skills he wanted to acquire and harness during his MBA years. "Through my various interests, I knew I could take on roles within clubs that would allow me to make decisions that impact student life, whether this was to plan yearly conferences, to organize events that helped educate students on different opportunities, or to work with the school administration to drive new initiatives. I knew that Stern prides itself on being a highly student-driven community and that I would be able to take ownership on aspects that were important to me," he added.Kwan stressed highlighting the opportunities that only NYU Stern, as opposed to other MBA programs, could provide. "As a career switcher, working previously at Citibank, I knew that Stern and NYC would provide me many opportunities to explore different functions and industries through internships, experiential learning, and a focus on international learning. By showing how these things would compliment by previous experiences, I was able to demonstrate both how Stern would benefit me as well as what I would give back to the community," he said.Lasith Lansakara, who graduated from NYU Stern in 2008 and is now a senior manager at Deloitte Canada, pointed to the in-person interview as a key way to impress admissions officers. "Be clear how you can further [your] career through Stern," he advised, "and also touch on your personal interests. Don't be afraid to talk about yourself." 








        Lasith Lansakara.
      
Lasith Lansakara

In his interview, Lansakara spent some time revealing his passion for graphic design and why it meant a lot to him. "I wanted to showcase the right side of my brain. I figured that since most of the application process focused on logic and structured thinking, I wanted to paint a more rounded picture of myself. I think it probably did help the admissions committee get a deeper understanding of me," he explained.Steven Avila, a 2019 NYU Stern graduate and associate at New York-based McKinsey, agreed that it's important to get comfortable telling your story. 








        Steven Avila.
      
Steven Avila

"Be prepared to share what happened to you in the past to get you interested in Stern," he said. "It's OK if you come from an unconventional background, like how I came from government, working for over two years at President Obama's Department of the Interior, and told Stern how the school would unlock doors that wouldn't be open to me otherwise. Getting an MBA would offer a versatility to where I could work, because I know companies like Amazon hire MBA grads as well as investment banks and consultancy organizations. Also, being a school in New York, Stern is so close to the many companies I'd be looking to work for after graduation."When Lia Winograd, a 2019 grad, applied to Stern's MBA program, she made sure to highlight her work as the founder and CEO of Pepper, her body-positive bra company. In the essay required by every applicant, "I looked at how I came from a world where I'd seen many business situations from a variety of angles," she said. "With my startup, I was able to figure out things from the ground up, and how I plan to fund and scale Pepper to develop it from where it was then."








        Lia Winograd.
      
Lia Winograd

When she applied to Stern, she said she already had tangible results for her idea for Pepper. She and her team had launched a successful Kickstarter campaign, which was fully funded in the first 10 hours and raised 470% above its original goal. "We had paying customers and validation for our idea, which I wanted to scale rather than launch from scratch during my MBA program," she said. "Most MBA applications I've seen touch on having a passion for entrepreneurship but nothing to back that up."She said applicants should hone their essay to reveal who they are beyond their academic profile. "You can put so much energy into getting good grades [that] you don't invest energy into other parts of the application, like the essay. It can give Stern a clear idea of your identity and your personality," Winograd added.Applicants shouldn't be shy about listing any volunteer responsibilities on their applications, even if they feel irrelevant to business school. For example, Avi Gutman, a 2010 grad who now works as a GMAT math teacher, said he told NYU Stern in his essay and interview about an impressive list of extracurricular work under his belt: one year at Junior Achievement Southern Alberta in Calgary, where he visited classrooms to share with students what staying in school instilled in him, and several years volunteering for the Israeli military, where his primary role focused on evaluating new recruits."I've often been a collaborative person, in work and in volunteer jobs, so I let that shine through in the interview," Gutman recalled. "I showed them a few times where I put the team ahead of my personal goals."Gutman said his essay describing his military service in Israel demonstrated those team-building assets he believed Stern looks for in applicants. In his essay, he wrote about commanding a team of 50 soldiers, interviewing as many as 900 recruits per day. "I collaborated frequently with the head of IT to optimize our reporting system, and the changes we implemented were adopted in other Psychotechnical Testing units across the country," he explained. "My innovations brought wait times down by 10%; employees were able to leave the base up to an hour earlier every day thanks to our improved efficiency."Relatively new to the application process at NYU Stern's MBA program is what they call "Pick Six." Since 2017, the school has asked applicants to submit six images, such as pictures or illustrations or graphic design work, along with captions.








        Lisa Rios.
      
Lisa Rios

"This is one of the ways for us to get insight into candidates outside of their academic profile and written work," said admissions director Lisa Rios. "They can have fun with it, too, and show us their personal side with Pick Six."Lauren Marinaro, currently enrolled in her first year in the NYU Stern MBA program, said with her Pick Six selections that she "wanted [to] tell a story of who I am that no resume or essay could." Among the photos was an image of her and a friend finishing a half marathon to show how Marinaro has always been competitive and goal driven. Another photo revealed an MRI brain scan: "Since having brain surgery at the age of 16, I've taken a different approach to life, seeking new experiences and taking greater risks. The MRI scans were meant to capture this and my resilience," she said.She also demonstrated her artistic skills by painting a portrait of her partner of 11 years. "Humor and creativity are aspects of my life I could not live without, and thus I thought the portrait I painted of my partner making a silly face would capture both these characteristics well," she said.What stands out in the many photo submissions Stern has received since 2017 is a package of images showing the applicant's true self. "This reveals who they are as a person, and it doesn't have to be a photograph, but can be something like an emoji even," Rios said.She said one of the missteps in this area, and other parts of the application process, is being inauthentic. "Don't be someone you're not," Rios said. "Don't show us something [you] think we want to see or hear. Employers are looking for graduates who are true to themselves and we want to see that in the application."