The Swedish activist Greta Thunberg changed her Twitter bio on Thursday in response to President Donald Trump's tweet mocking her win as Time magazine's Person of the Year and telling her she should "chill" and "work on her Anger Management problem."Thunberg was named Time magazine's 2019 Person of the Year this week after rising to international prominence as the face of youth climate activism. However, Thunberg's honor wasn't well received by everyone — particularly Trump, who was himself shortlisted for the award and didn't win."So ridiculous," Trump tweeted on Thursday morning. "Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill!"While Thunberg didn't respond with a tweet, she did make a timely update to her Twitter bio."A teenager working on her anger management problem" the 16-year-old's bio said. "Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend."








        Thunberg's Twitter bio as of Thursday.
      
Greta Thunberg on Twitter

Thunberg's bio previously described her as a "16 year old climate and environmental activist with Asperger's," according to the Wayback Machine archive.This isn't the first time that Trump has mentioned Thunberg on Twitter, or the first time that Thunberg has changed her Twitter bio in response.In September, after the climate activist said in a speech to the United Nations that the world was "in the beginning of a mass extinction," Trump mockingly tweeted that Thunberg was "looking forward to a bright and wonderful future." In turn, Thunberg changed her bio to "a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future."Trump's latest criticism of Thunberg drew fierce criticism online from those questioning Trump's use of Twitter to mock a 16-year-old with a developmental disability.Others referred to the uproar last month after a witness at the hearings in Trump's impeachment inquiry used the name of Trump's 13-year-old son, Barron, to make a pun about the president's constitutional power. Some were quick to call on first lady Melania Trump — who runs an anti-bullying campaign — to voice the same amount of outrage as she did after Barron's name was used.Some posited that Trump was jealous he wasn't awarded Time's honor, which he was shortlisted for this year alongside the Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi.Trump was named Time's Person of the Year in 2016 shortly after he was elected, and he made headlines the following year when he claimed he turned down the chance to get the award again because Time told him he would only "probably" get it. Time denied that it did, and Trump's tweet about it has been widely mocked.That's not to mention that before winning the Time honor in 2016, framed fake Time covers edited to show Trump were spotted around his golf clubs.