AdvertisementSupported byTesla’s chairman, Elon Musk, provided few details about the plant, which would be Tesla’s first major factory in Europe. By Christopher F. SchuetzeBERLIN — Tesla plans to open a factory near Berlin that would make batteries, powertrains and vehicles, starting with the company’s newest model, a compact sport utility vehicle called the Model Y.Elon Musk, Tesla’s chairman, delivered the news on a stage in the German capital on Tuesday after being awarded the Golden Steering Wheel, a German automobile prize, for the Tesla Model 3.“I actually have an announcement that I think will hopefully be well received,” he said, with leaders of Germany’s automobile industry in the audience. “We’ve decided to put the Tesla Gigafactory Europe in the Berlin area.” Mr. Musk provided few details about the plant, which would be Tesla’s first major factory in Europe, and did not say when and where exactly it would be built or how many people would be hired. Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, is quickly becoming the European battleground for building electric vehicles, as both the German government and manufacturers invest in the new technology. Mr. Musk had mentioned during Tesla’s last earnings report conference call in October that the company would build a factory somewhere in Europe.Peter Altmaier, the country’s economy and energy minister, described Tesla’s announcement as a validation of the German government’s investment in the field of electric mobility.The government recently announced plans to subsidize the purchase of electric vehicles by as much as $5,500, in a bid to bring 10 million electric cars onto German roads by 2030. The government plans to support those with 300,000 publicly accessible charging stations.“We can assume that we now have the chance to become an important international center in this arena of the future over the next few years,” Mr. Altmaier said at a news conference on Wednesday.Herbert Diess, the chief executive of Volkswagen, joined Mr. Musk onstage on Tuesday shortly after he made the announcement. Mr. Diess congratulated him on his award, noting that there was a lot of competition in Germany. “I thank you for pioneering, for pulling us, for pushing us,” he told Mr. Musk.Volkswagen is undergoing a major strategic shift toward electric cars. The company began work Wednesday on an $800 million expansion of its factory in Chattanooga, Tenn., to produce battery-powered cars for the American market. The German carmaker will add 1,000 jobs at the site and begin producing an electric S.U.V. called the ID. Crozz there in 2022.But Mr. Musk’s announcement heralds a direct competitor just 150 miles east of VW’s Wolfsburg headquarters.After the surprise statement, Mr. Musk sent a Twitter message to his 29 million followers with the words “GIGA BERLIN” and hearts in the colors of the German flag. “I come to Berlin a lot,” Mr. Musk told the crowd. “Berlin rocks!” Clean-energy advocates cheered the news. “This move will give huge impetus to e-mobility and the much-needed shift in mobility in Berlin and Germany,” said Ramona Pop, a member of the Green Party and the Berlin lawmaker responsible for economics, energy and public enterprises.Mr. Musk told a British car magazine that Britain’s looming exit from the European Union had helped him decide on Germany.“Brexit made it too risky to put a Gigafactory in the U.K.,” he told Auto Express.Although Tesla would not give details about the proposed factory, it did say the new factory would be powered by wind and solar energy, with a goal to be emissions free. The new plant would be Tesla’s first major production center in Europe. The company runs a smaller assembly plant in the Netherlands and facilities in a number of other European countries.Europe is proving to be a fertile market for the company. After its introduction in March, the Tesla Model 3 quickly became the best-selling battery-powered car on the Continent. And in September, the Model 3 narrowly missed being listed among Europe’s top 10 passenger cars in sales. Tesla sold 17,500 Model 3s that month, according to data compiled by JATO Dynamics, just behind the Renault Captur, a compact S.U.V. with an internal combustion engine. The Model 3 sold better than established vehicles like the Volkswagen Tiguan S.U.V. and the BMW Mini.Tesla is a serious threat to the established carmakers because it is completely focused on battery-powered cars, while companies like Volkswagen must still devote resources to producing vehicles that run on fossil fuels.But the German company is trying to demonstrate that the market will ultimately belong to established manufacturers with the know-how to mass produce electric cars at prices that are competitive with conventional vehicles.“Electric vehicles are the future of mobility and Volkswagen will build them for millions, not just millionaires,” Scott Keogh, president of Volkswagen Group of America, said in a statement.Jack Ewing contributed reporting from Frankfurt.Advertisement