Catch up on the most important news from today in two minutes or less.Apple wants to be in your ear and Tesla wants to be on your house, but first: a cartoon about taking podcasts a little too seriously.Here's the news you need to know, in two minutes or less.Want to receive this two-minute roundup as an email every weekday? Sign up here!Apple reveals $250 noise-canceling AirPods ProDeparting from the company's usual product launch fanfare, Apple announced the arrival of new wireless earbuds today: the Airpods Pro. They're shorter, they include swappable silicone tips for added comfort, offer a noise-canceling mode and a transparency mode to let outside sounds in, and are sweat- and water-resistant. Sounds blissful if you're ready to shell out $250—almost $100 more than the already expensive classic AirPods.Tesla has a new solar roof—and Musk says this one will workLast Friday, Tesla CEO Elon Musk revealed Version 3.0 of the Solar Glass Roof, a house-topper made of solar panels that looks like slate. The Solar Glass Roof was originally introduced in 2016, but the third iteration will be cheaper, easier, and faster to install than its predecessors. And these are no stick-on solar panels, mind you—they are the actual roof itself, one that can withstand 110 mph winds and 2-inch chunks of hail.That's how long a secret Air Force spacecraft spent in orbit, serving as a platform for classified experiments. The plane, which looks like NASA's space shuttle and isn't much larger than a school bus, landed this weekend, and while we may never know what secret experiments it helped carry out, the Air Force called the mission a big success.Yes, they'll tease you for wearing a fanny pack ... until they realize who's carrying all the snacks. Here are the best fanny packs you can buy right now.Here are the 12 best foreign horror movies to stream.This daily roundup is available as a newsletter. You can sign up right here to make sure you get the news delivered fresh to your inbox every weekday!WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.More From WIREDContact© 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18) and Your California Privacy Rights. Wired may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices