CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againHere are the properties we know will join the MCU within the next three years (plus some rumored ones), and new film dates.The Marvel Cinematic Universe is the most successful film franchise of all time, having grossed more than $18 billion worldwide -- $4 billion of which it made in 2018 alone -- and now owning the title of highest-grossing movie of all time with Endgame. And as Marvel Studios announced its incredible Phase 4 plans at Comic-Con and expanded on them at its D23 fan expo, the franchise shows no signs of slowing down.Especially with Disney finally confirming so many new MCU shows for its Disney Plus streaming service, plus five new films in the next two and half years alone. Disney's new release date updates suggest we could be getting even more MCU movies in 2022 and 2023, but the list just matches dates with the description "Untitled Marvel Film," so who knows if these will be MCU or X-Men or Fantastic Four movies -- or all of these together.  The first Phase 4 announcement at SDCC in July 2019 brought out ALL the big names.As the Infinity Saga came to a close this year, we celebrated the badass women of the the Marvel universe with the release Captain Marvel, and now we have a new look at what awaits us in the next phase of the MCU, including some in-canon shows.That's right, thanks to Disney Plus, some of the newly announced shows will roll into the MCU canon and feed directly into the films, as Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige confirmed at SDCC. These Disney Plus series will be overseen by Feige and will reportedly have bigger budgets than what's typically allocated for television shows. Earlier MCU shows like the Netflix series and ABC's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. were and are (respectively) produced by Marvel TV, under the guide of Executive Vice President and Head of Television Jeph Loeb. But they were never explicitly referenced by the movies (more on that below).With all that in mind, here's what we know is coming through 2021, both rumored and confirmed. And we'll be sure to keep this list updated as things evolve and grow!All of these movies and the details below were confirmed as in production by Feige at SDCC. We've included all the details we learned below. May 1, 2020Nov. 6, 2020Full cast revealed for The Eternals #MarvelSDCC #SDCC2019 pic.twitter.com/c7dK6H0rw4Feb. 12, 2021May 7, 2021Nov. 5, 2021He's back.“I DIDNT EVEN HAVE TIME TO TALK ABOUT THE FANTASTIC FOUR. AND THERE’S NO TIME TO TALK ABIUT MUTANTS.” #MarvelSDCC #SDCC2019Yes, also rumored are the introduction of the Fantastic Four and the X-Men to the MCU. From Feige's own lips comes this rumor, along with a sincere hope from us that these additions materialize.  What a fun line up @marvel  so happy to be on this ride #cominginhot #2021 pic.twitter.com/pDC8tcrL0HFeige announced more shows at D23 in August.This article was originally posted on January 17, 2019, and is regularly updated.Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.