 








        Hydro Flask
      

This Black Friday, Hydro Flask is offering 25% off and free shipping for almost all of their products. Discounts are automatically applied, and you can use the code "UNDERTREE19" at checkout for free shipping. This sale runs through Black Friday and Cyber Monday, lasting until December 8.Hydro Flask is changing the way we drink. The Oregon-based company's extensive product line includes everything from mugs that keep your coffee hot all day long to hydration packs that help you power through long hikes. Hydro Flask's products feature ergonomic, heavy-duty construction; 18/8 stainless steel to ward off corrosion and ensure pure taste; and double-wall vacuum insulation to lock in temperature.If you've read many of our gift guides, you're probably familiar with Hydro Flask. We use the company's products in our day-to-day lives. I especially like the Growler as an affordable, portable, and indestructible option for enjoying my favorite brews. Recently, Insider Picks' Owen Burke reviewed the Oasis, which is a one-gallon water jug and included in the Black Friday sale. He was blown away by how it stood up to three months of abuse. And, it kept his beverages cool all day.Whether you want to experience it for yourself or need a holiday gift idea for someone on your list, Hydro Flask products are an excellent choice.








        Hydro Flask
      











        Alyssa Powell/Business Insider
      


Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.