In the Golden Age of Marie Kondo, tiny homes, and minimalist interior design trends, people are focusing their intentions on swapping out things for experiences, making traveling abroad more popular than ever. The shift — and the rise of the sharing economy — has proven that today’s travelers are seeking out more authentic experiences as they’re opting for AirBnbs rather than luxury hotels and planning their travel itineraries so they can fully immerse themselves within the local culture. Even with the best intentions in mind and all the pre-trip research you can fit in, traveling to a country where you don’t speak the native language presents a roadblock in making the most out of your visit. Experiencing cultures different from your own and meeting the locals is part of what makes international travel so special, but communicating in a country where you don’t speak the same language can prove rather difficult. Even if you didn’t find time to cram that Danish 101 lesson in before landing in Copenhagen or haven’t brushed up on your Spanish since high school, you can relax. There is officially a technological gadget to make everything better. (Because of course there is.)SEE ALSO: 13 travel bloggers on their very favorite travel gadgetsOnce you’ve hacked how to get the most sleep as possible on that international flight and found a piece of carry on luggage you can fit a week’s worth of wardrobe in, it’s time to think about translation devices. In recent years, handheld translation devices have become increasingly popular among travelers. Basically a pocket-sized box designed to translate what you’re hearing (or saying) in real time, the devices make communicating with locals as easy as the press of a button. If you’re looking to partake in smooth conversations without things getting lost in translation, these two-way voice translator devices are the answer to your immersive travel prayers. This means you can have full conversations in real-time without the back and forth of translating individual words and phrases with your phone, or frantically flipping through the pages in the language book you knew would come in handy at some point. Even though the travel technology is a relatively new development, there are certain features you’ll want to keep in mind when searching for your pocket-sized translator. Does it work by WiFi or mobile hotspot, or does it come with a SIM card? What’s the response time when engaging in a two-way conversation? Can it be used as a dictionary to learn more key phrases? Is it touch-screen? So many questions, but don’t worry: We’ve got you. Thanks to our research and the lovely community of Amazon reviewers, we’ve broken down the details on some of the best translator devices on the market so you can find one that works best for you. After all, international travel is an investment and with the ability to speak the native language right at your fingertips, it only makes sense to give yourself the gift of immersive communication. Plus, you’ll feel like a Spy Kid. We’ve taken the guesswork out of it by rounding up the best translation devices so you can communicate more easily wherever else your travels take you.
Heads up: All products featured here are selected by Mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. If you buy something, Mashable may earn an affiliate commission. 
