The actor who stars as Prince Charles in the third season of "The Crown" said that playing the future king made him realize that Charles is "a guy waiting for his mother to die for his life to have meaning."Josh O'Connor is the first actor to play the royal during his adult years for the Emmy award-winning Netflix series. 
Josh O’Connor will play Prince Charles in #TheCrown Season 3.A post shared by  The Crown (@thecrownnetflix) on Oct 27, 2018 at 5:35am PDTOct 27, 2018 at 5:35am PDT
The 29-year-old, who previously starred in "Peaky Blinders" and the 2017 movie "God's Own Country," told British GQ he'd been researching and preparing for the role for months. "What I'm gradually finding ... is a guy waiting for his mother to die for his life to have meaning. His whole life has been in purgatory," he said."Waiting for your parent to die is pretty messed up. That the one person who should be unconditional is the person that holds the power for you to have any meaning in your life … it's quite nice to play that. They're huge stakes."Prince Charles' relationship with his mother Queen Elizabeth II is a focal point throughout the third season of the show with the last two seasons focusing on the monarch's first decade on the throne.Season three of the series focuses on the years 1964 to 1976, from when Prince Charles first meets Camilla to the Queen's Silver Jubilee.And to prepare for such a grand role, O'Connor said he watched the BBC documentary, "Prince, Son and Heir: Charles at 70," and even credits hard-boiled eggs as key to getting into character. "I am eating quite a lot of them them because that's what Charles does. He eats a lot of boiled eggs." The actor who also said he never ridden a horse before "The Crown," had to learn and perfect Prince Charles' distinct riding style, particularly in his polo-playing scenes. 








        Prince Charles playing polo in Cirenster, England in 2005.
      
Tim Graham Photo Library via Getty Images

"Charles holds the reins in a different way."Most people have four reins here, then thumb on top. He puts the reins in between each finger. So I learnt that as well. I love that."Season three of the show also sees Oscar-winner Olivia Colman star as Queen Elizabeth II and Helena Bonham Carter as the boisterous Princess Margaret. 
“This time, we are the endangered species.” Season Three of The Crown, now streaming.A post shared by  The Crown (@thecrownnetflix) on Nov 17, 2019 at 12:08am PSTNov 17, 2019 at 12:08am PST
Read more:23 photos of Prince Charles doing commoner things that will make you chucklePrince Charles just turned 71 — here are the best photos from every year of his royal career so farHow the cast of Netflix's 'The Crown' compares to the real-life royalsLike what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
