A cyberpunk is joining Tesla's electric family.Tesla CEO Elon Musk has been teasing an electric pickup truck for years. Back in 2013 he tweeted, "Would love to do a pickup truck." At the end of 2017 he posted, "I promise that we will make a pickup truck right after Model Y ... Am dying to build it." A year later he repeated, " I'm dying to make a pickup truck so bad ... we might have a prototype to unveil next year." Then on Wednesday he announced Tesla would would unveil the e-truck in two weeks.Cybertruck unveil on Nov 21 in LA near SpaceX rocket factory— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 6, 2019Musk has described the truck as "an armored personnel carrier from the future." He repeated that description at the U.S. Air Force Space Pitch Day in San Francisco on Tuesday, where he also spoke about his strange Space Jam viewing habits (incrementally, in 15-minute segments while exercising).SEE ALSO: Elon Musk describes Tesla pickup as 'armored personnel carrier from the future'He even showed a pickup teaser pic at the Model Y unveiling in March. The internet is filled with sketches, designs, and ideas of what the truck could look like based on various clues over the years. Soon we'll find out how cyberpunk the design really is.About a minute in, we flashed a teaser pic of Tesla cyberpunk truck pic.twitter.com/hLsGsdyuGA— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 16, 2019In true Musk fashion, Tesla is revealing the truck in November 2019 in Los Angeles — the exact setting of the 1982 dystopian sci-fi classic Blade Runner. (At the end of the Model Y event in March, the end titles from Blade Runner played as a nod to the forthcoming truck.)The date is strangely familiar …https://t.co/YZl5R1POJL— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 6, 2019Other than the design, the LA unveiling should reveal more about the electric pickup's capabilities, battery range, and price. Also on Wednesday, Volvo announced the start of European sales for its electric heavy-duty trucks, closer in design to the all-electric Tesla Semi than a personal pickup. 