 








        Antonio Villas-Boas/Business Insider
      

Black Friday is upon us, bringing with it a huge range of impressive deals on all kinds of products. From gaming devices to computers and laptops, there are deals out there for everyone.Microsoft, in particular, has been building some of the best Windows 10 hardware of the past few years, and there are plenty of Microsoft device deals live right now for Black Friday.The Microsoft Surface Pro 7 is the latest and greatest 2-in-1 laptop in the highly popular Surface Pro lineup. The tablet is sleek and stylish, and with this bundle, it can be used as a laptop too, thanks to the inclusion of the Type Cover keyboard.This particular variant of the Surface Pro 7 offers a 10th-generation, 10-nanometer Intel Core i5 processor, along with 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage, which should be more than powerful and long-lasting enough for the vast majority of people.There are discounts on other Surface Pro 7 variants too, so if you need better performance, it's worth configuring better hardware. This deal is live right now until likely December 2.The Microsoft Surface Laptop 3 is a sleek and stylish laptop. It's perfect for the professional who needs a powerful laptop that's relatively portable. The Microsoft Surface Laptop 3 comes in 13.5-inch and 15-inch models, with the 13.5-inch featuring beautiful Alcantara covering around the keyboard for a softer touch and the new 15-inch sporting a solid block of aluminum.All models of the Surface Laptop 3 are available at a discount of up to $300 off, except the base model which comes with an Intel Core i5, 8GB of RAM, and 128GB of storage. If you upgrade to 256GB of storage, you'll get a discount. This deal is available now through likely December 1.If you're a gamer looking to get your hands on one of the most powerful gaming consoles out there, then it's worth considering Microsoft's deals on Xbox One bundles.These bundles include the Xbox One S or more powerful Xbox One X, along with a game — like the new "Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order." These bundles are on sale for up to $150 off their normal price. Microsoft's Xbox deals are available now through December 1.If you want a high-end Microsoft device on a budget, then the Surface Go is the device for you. The Surface Go may not be as powerful as some of the other Microsoft devices on this list, but it still has a lot to offer — including an Intel 4415Y processor, 8GB of RAM, and 128GB of storage.For Black Friday, you'll get savings of up to $150, so you could pay as little as $299.99, depending on the model you choose. This deal will be available starting on November 28.Perhaps you need a little extra oomph from your laptop, in which case it's worth considering the Microsoft Surface Book 2. The device is essentially a detachable 2-in-1 laptop that allows you to use the screen as a tablet, plus it boasts an Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage. You can get up to Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 graphics, which is good news for graphic designers and photographers.The device is available for up to a massive $500 off, which is a pretty huge discount. It seems to be limited to the higher-end Surface Book 2 models. This deal will be available starting on November 28.Thankfully, yes. Microsoft will be having a range of Black Friday deals on all kinds of Microsoft hardware, and we've listed the best ones here.While third-party stores might have their own deals on Microsoft devices, the Microsoft Store also has deals — and, they're largely excellent and will be tough to match by third-party retailers. To get the Microsoft student discount, you'll need to access the Microsoft Store straight through the Microsoft Student and Military Discounts website, log in, then hit the Shop Now button. At this point, it's unknown as to whether or not there will be a Microsoft Surface Book 3. The device has not been officially announced, though some rumors suggest that a Surface Book 3 will be released — likely sometime in 2020.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.