CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againLyft passengers allege the company isn't doing enough to stop sexual assaults. Also, the era of practical quantum computers has begun, and meet an 11-year-old girl set on teaching kids everywhere to code.Oh, Facebook, you just can't help making headlines, and some of this week's were pretty rough. In particular, lawmakers catechized CEO Mark Zuckerberg for six hours Wednesday over the company's Libra cryptocurrency plans and its overall business practices. Facebook also this week announced security plans for the 2020 presidential election and launched a new News tab in the US.Meanwhile, we drowned iPhone 11s to test their water resistance and tried out TCL's wild dual-hinged accordion phone. And we've entered third-quarter earnings report season, with Amazon notably missing Wall Street expectations largely due to its bold plan to speed up shipping.Here are the week's stories you don't want to miss:Sexual assaults are reportedly happening daily to Lyft passengers. Lawsuits involving at least 34 women allege the ride-hailing company isn't doing enough to stop them.The era of practical quantum computers has begun -- at least on one speed test showing "quantum supremacy."Coder Samaira Mehta talks about why age is just a number, and why she wishes she could clone herself. Big goals.We bet you couldn't quit your phone even if you wanted to."Prime editing" is more precise and more efficient than CRISPR and could herald a new era of genetic manipulation.There's an influx of recycled movies and TV shows. Hollywood may finally be creatively bankrupt.Surveillance technology is costing tenants their privacy. It could be costing them financially, too.Director Alfonso Gomez-Rejon and actor Michael Shannon describe how Thomas Edison, George Westinghouse and Nikola Tesla fought over the future of electrical power.The Terminator star was brought to tears on the first day of filming -- and not because of her reunion with Arnold Schwarzenegger.Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.