Two powerful winter storms are bringing severe weather conditions to large swaths of the US ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday.The first storm dropped heavy amounts of snow on Denver, Colorado, on Monday, prompting flight cancellations and a warning from the Colorado Department of Transportation for drivers to stay off the roads. The storm is expected to move toward the Upper Midwest on late Tuesday, with the National Weather Service reporting an "enhanced risk for severe weather" in the Mississippi Valley. From there, it's expected to head across the Great Lakes on Wednesday.The second storm started out in the northeastern Pacific Ocean and is forecast to barrel through Southern Oregon and Northern California on Tuesday. By the time it hits Southern Oregon, the storm is predicted to undergo bombogenesis, a term for rapidly strengthened because of a sharp drop in pressure. It's expected to make landfall on Tuesday afternoon as a "bomb cyclone," or intense, hurricane-like storm that builds at mid-latitudes.The storms threaten to disrupt millions of Thanksgiving travel plans.The National Weather Service reports that snow accumulations of 6-12 inches will be common in Wyoming and Colorado, the Central Plains, and the Western Great Lakes.Denver could see up to 14 inches of snow and 40 mph winds.








        Pedestrians cross snow-covered Broadway by 17th St. in downtown Denver on Tuesday, November 26, 2019.
      
Hyoung Chang/MediaNews Group/The Denver Post/Getty Images

In addition to strong winds and heavy snow, the Central Plains may endure near-blizzard conditions. Parts of Illinois and Missouri could see damaging winds, hail, and tornadoes on Tuesday night. At the same time, Minneapolis could witness more than 6 inches of snow and 35 mph winds. The Upper Peninsula of Michigan could also be pummeled by nearly a foot of snow.On the West Coast, Southwestern Oregon and Northwestern California may endure wind gusts of more than 70 mph — enough to topple trees and down power lines in some areas. The San Francisco Bay Area can also expect its first significant rainfall of the season.The two storms are threatening to disrupt air travel during what portends to be the busiest Thanksgiving travel period since 2005. A record-breaking number of passengers were expected to travel by air this year, but some flights have already been canceled.








        The Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City.
      
Eduardo Munoz/Reuters

More than 450 flights were canceled at Denver International Airport by Tuesday afternoon. Airlines including American, Alaska, Delta, JetBlue, Frontier, Southwest, Spirit, and United have issued preliminary travel waivers to affected passengers. More cancellations could be on the way as the storms rip across separate parts of the country.Though the Midwest storm is expected to die down by the time it reaches the East Coast, it could bring heavy winds to New York on Thursday. New York City may experience sustained winds of up to 30 mph and gusts up to 50 mph. At those speeds, the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade would be forced to ground its iconic balloons.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
