
They have one main source of revenue. ONE. The iPhone/

If that iPhone revenue dries up they are dead in the water. lmao at trillion dollar company.

I hate to sound negative, and I’m not tryin to hate. But this doesn’t really seem like the direction I would like to see Apple gravitate towards.

Cutting edge software matched with groundbreaking hardware use to be Apples wheel house.

Wow! Thought this was a dramatically-styled new iPad design…

I hate to sound negative, and I’m not tryin to hate. But this doesn’t really seem like the direction I would like to see Apple gravitate towards.

Cutting edge software matched with groundbreaking hardware use to be Apples wheel house.

Those days are over ever since Steve Jobs himself dropped Computer from Apple Computer. Disgusting. Saw the warning sign when the iPod, which, yes, I absolutely think destroyed Apple by turning it into a toy company like Hasbro.

On the market for an iPhone? Here's a breakdown of all the currently shipping iPhones from Apple.
Apple is separating the new smartphones into its usual low-cost versus high-cost categories, with big differences between the two models coming down to the camera, display, and battery life.
At first glance, the two devices have quite a few similarities, but the iPhone 11 takes a step forward in regards to cameras, battery life, and more.There are dozens if not hundreds of smaller new changes and tweaks that are included in iOS 13. 
One of iOS 13's major new features is a systemwide Dark Mode option, which matches the Dark Mode feature we got in macOS Mojave last year.
All-new modular design, starting at $5999.New 6K pro-level display, starting at $4999.Low-cost device similar to iPhone 8 but with upgraded internals such as latest A13 chip. MacRumors attracts a broad audience
of both consumers and professionals interested in
the latest technologies and products. We also boast an active community focused on
purchasing decisions and technical aspects of the iPhone, iPod, iPad, and Mac platforms.