Filed under:SALT LAKE CITY — If Paul Finebaum’s to-do list Wednesday included “Offend Utah” and “Trend nationwide on Twitter,” well, the ESPN commentator got his day off to a splendid start.A bombastic, disparaging and condescending comment Finebaum made about the University of Utah football team on ESPN’s “Get Up” isn’t making him any friends with fans of the Utes — or people who think college teams outside of the SEC and a few select other traditional powerhouses deserve a chance to play for a national championship.Finebaum was asked to state his opinion on who will claim the fourth and final spot in the College Football Playoff semifinals if No. 2 LSU beats No. 4 Georgia in the SEC championship, No. 6 Oklahoma defeats No. 7 Baylor in the Big 12 championship and No. 5 Utah downs No. 13 Oregon in the Pac-12 championship this weekend.Finebaum didn’t hesitate to anoint the Sooners as the fourth program in the CFP.“Let’s be honest,” Finebaum said, “the country does not want to see Utah in the College Football Playoff. I’m sorry. It’s Utah!”(Narrator: He wasn’t really sorry.)When it was suggested that Oklahoma might not fare any better than the Utes, Finebaum retorted, “They might not be any better, but they’re going to look a lot better.”Finebaum, a regular contributor to the SEC Network, didn’t mention the fact that Utah has beaten eight straight Pac-12 opponents by an average of 29 points, while the Sooners recently beat Iowa State (42-41), Baylor (34-31) and TCU (28-24) by a combined eight points before last week’s more impressive 34-16 victory over 21st-ranked Oklahoma State.Not surprisingly, Finebaum’s comment stirred up some social media dust, including from the Utes.From the team’s official Twitter account:Thanks for the bulletin board material, @finebaum. Keep it coming.   https://t.co/wiB0V7C3VJBackup quarterback Jason Shelley:Former Ute guard Isaac Asiata:Why this @finebaum clown is continued to commentate and report is beyond me. The fact that the statement “the country does not want to see UTAH in the College Football Playoffs” is used as an argument against them, is a joke. Especially from someone who looks like Mr. Burns https://t.co/z8rCjxaybwFormer Ute linebacker Gionni Paul:@finebaum look I understand that you are frustrated but we here and here to stay. You say it’s UTAH!!! You damn right and the cream always rises to the top!!!! https://t.co/Kh8YJJ816lBut it hasn’t just been red-and-white-clad folks who’ve come after Finebaum for his remarks:Come on...@finebaum this an absurd take...this might be your position, but to suggest that the "country" feels this way is not rightAlso, to suggest that OU will look "a lot" better is not accurate either...If you haven't watched Utah just say it and move on https://t.co/vL6ymqzxOPSomeone tell @finebaum they won't move the game to 10:30 pm ET if Utah is in it, we promise. He'll be finally be able to stay up and watch them.Yes we want to see Oklahoma get crushed again in the playoff? I’m not saying Utah wouldn’t get beaten badly but this just goes to show if Utah was USC, it wouldn’t even be a question if they are in. Hype matters. Name matters. Film not so much for ppl like Finebaum https://t.co/jxUK9pl1dJHe’s watched, he’s performing his task as a “HOT TAKER” he’s wrong and doesn’t mind. The CFB media pool we swim in. Say this, and then we needn’t bother covering 3/4’s of the sport. The SunBelt Invitational wants no part of Utah, and that’s the problem. Pure Playoff Privileged!BYU fans even came to Utah’s defense (gasp!):Utah is like that sibling that I don’t like so I can say mean things & pick on them but you sir are not allowed!! https://t.co/5hSn28AjqTListen I hate Utah as mush as the next BYU guy but are we saying that the Playoff is only for select teams @finebaum? Utah would compete with any of those top 3 programs with their defense alone. https://t.co/GXBqP9kPtRBy the way, Clemson coach Dabo Swinney recently was on the receiving end of a Finebaum insult. The New York Times bestselling author called Swinney “the most annoying winner in all of sports.”His response might be a wise one for the Utes to consider adopting.“You don’t worry about criticism from people you wouldn’t seek advice from.”"You don't worry about criticism from people you wouldn't seek advice from."Dabo Swinney reacting in real time to Paul Finebaum's remarks that he needs a "pacifier and a timeout," where  bologna sandwiches, Miss Puckett and adult naps were also discussed. @ClemsonFB #ALLIN pic.twitter.com/b5pwdcn26tStart your day with the top stories you missed while you were sleeping.