UPDATE: Late Monday evening, following community backlash and multiple media reports, Brigham Young University sent out an email announcing the reversal of its decision to bar the use of Medicaid as a form of accepted student health insurance. The email, viewed by Insider, apologized for "the turmoil" caused by the initial decision, which forced some students to consider de-enrolling from class."We are grateful for the feedback we have received from our campus community and for the input of the local medical community," BYU-Idaho wrote. "We have decided that Medicaid, as it has in previous years, will meet the health coverage requirement at BYU-Idaho. "The lowest-income students at the Brigham Young University-Idaho face a momentous choice — pay for private health insurance, or drop out of school. Specifically, the choice affects students who qualify for free coverage under Medicaid, which starting in January, won't be accepted at the school.News of the decision has spurred controversy among students and local community members and has some students reportedly preparing to put college on hold. As of November 25, Over 700 users had joined the Facebook group, Accept Medicaid BYU-I,  which seeks to raise awareness and ultimately reverse the school's decision affecting the university's poorest students.One of those students, 20-year-old- Emily Langston, told The New York Times she is being forced to drop out of school due to the change. Unable to use Medicaid as her primary health insurance, the next cheapest option for Langston would have been the university's health insurance plan; a plan that would have reportedly require her and her husband to pay a $3,125 annual premium. That's simply too high a cost for some students. News of the policy decision came by way of a school-wide email on November 20. In the email, first reported on by Fox 13, school offices called Medicaid coverage, "impractical." "Due to the healthcare needs of the tens of thousands of students enrolled annually on the campus of BYU-Idaho, it would be impractical for the local medical community and infrastructure to support them with Medicaid coverage," the email said. While Brigham Young University-Idaho officials said they made their decision to prevent an undue financial burden on local medical institutions, an official from the most prominent hospital in the area spoke out rejecting that premise. "We do not feel like the new Medicaid expansion is going to be an overburden for our community's medical needs in the area," Doug McBride, the executive director of business development at  Madison Memorial Hospital, said in a statement provided to Fox 13. "We feel we have the ability to handle those needs."For many of the school's poorest students, the next cheapest alternative will likely be the university's health care plan purchased through Deseret Mutual Benefits Administration. DMBA and Brigham Young University-Idaho are both owned by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — more commonly known as the Mormon Church. An average student enrolled in the DMBA plan, according to Fox 13, would have to pay around $500 per semester. Aside from being more expensive, the DMBA plan also reportedly fails to meet some of the coverage standards outlined in the Affordable Care Act. The DMBA plan, according to The New York Times, for example, does not cover birth control. It also reportedly has a $4,750 deductible that must be met before it will cover maternity care for the spouse of a student. 








        The Salt Lake Mormon Temple is seen above in October 2014.
      
George Frey/Getty

The policy change is reportedly expected to take effect on January 1, 2020, the same day Medicaid coverage is expected to expand to Idaho residents. Idaho government officials have long opposed participating in the Medicaid program which was expanded after the passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. Under the ACA expansion, Medicaid coverage was expanded to most low-income adults under 138% of the poverty line. Thirty-five states have adopted Medicaid expansion. Idaho voted in favor of the expansion last year, but only after years of resistance. The state voted against the expansion twice and the 2018 decision was only affirmed after an Idaho Supreme Court ruling earlier this year. Brigham Young University's main campus is located in Provo, Utah, and it has separate campuses in Laie, Hawaii, and Rexburg, Idaho. Only the Idaho campus refuses Medicaid coverage, according to the New York Times.In 2007, according to a survey by the American College Health Association, 57% of schools required mandatory health insurance as a precondition of enrollment. That percentage has gradually increased in the 12 years since. Colleges and universities say they require insurance from their students to keep the cost down in local medical communities and to keep students from potentially being forced to drop out because of financial burdens. As a result, colleges and universities often purchase insurance plans from companies and then sell those plans to their students. In many cases, those plans are already included in a student's tuition, and students are required to opt-out if they want to use a different form of insurance (or if they are still covered on their parent's insurance.) While the Brigham Young-Idaho administration did not respond to Insider's request for comment on whether it was considering backtracking on its decision, an email sent by the university and posted on the Accept Medicaid BYU Facebook group to a student, seemed to suggest they were unlikely to reverse course. The letter acknowledged the financial strain of the new insurance waiver, but offered that "the university may be able to help financially."A former pastor who once wrote a book about avoiding physical touch before marriage says he excommunicated himself from ChristianityJoe Biden was denied Holy Communion at a church in South Carolina because he supports abortionLike what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
