This year brought many popular, billion-dollar movies like "Avengers: Endgame," "Toy Story 4," "Captain Marvel," and more. But there were plenty of fantastic films that didn't seem to capture to cultural conversation. So we're here to round up the best movies of the year that you might not have seen, and make the case for watching them now. Keep reading to see 13 great movies you might have missed this year. Release date: January 25, 2019Synopsis: "A band of kids embark on an epic quest to thwart a medieval menace."Rotten Tomatoes score: 90%Why you should see it: The legend of King Arthur and his brave knights has been told and retold many times — but never like this. "The Kid Who Would Be King" takes the classic story and places it in modern times, with a young boy forced to go on an epic quest in the middle of 2019 England. This movie is funny, heartfelt, and has a few solid surprises built into its familiar framework.Release date: March 1, 2019Synopsis: "Against all the odds, a 13-year-old boy in Malawi invents an unconventional way to save his family and village from famine. Based on the true story of William Kamkwamba."Rotten Tomatoes score: 86%Why you should see it: Directed and cowritten by Oscar-nominated actor Chiwetel Ejiofor, "The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind" is one of the best Netflix original movies of the year. It's hard to skip Netflix movies, but this is one you should take the time to watch. Stream it on Netflix here.Release date: April 16, 2019Synopsis: "A woman is forced to go on the run when her superhuman abilities are discovered. Years after having abandoned her family, the only place she has left to hide is home."Rotten Tomatoes score: 82%Why you should see it: At a time when the superhero movie market is perhaps over-saturated, "Fast Color" stands out as a grounded and special take on the genre. Critics praised Gugu Mbatha-Raw, saying this is her best performance. Written and directed by Julia Hart, and following the story of two young women, this is exactly the kind of sci-fi/superhero story we need more of right now.Release date: April 17, 2019Synopsis: "'Homecoming' presents an intimate look at Beyoncé's historic 2018 Coachella performance that paid homage to America's historically black colleges and universities."Rotten Tomatoes score: 98%Why you should see it: First Beyoncé made history in 2018 as the first-ever black woman to headline Coachella, and then one year later she gave people a rare look behind the curtain at how she pulled off one of the best live shows of the decade. "Homecoming" is awe-inspiring and flawlessly edits together her two shows into one incredible TV-watching experience. You can stream it now on Netflix, and should.Release date: May 3, 2019Synopsis: "Journalist Fred Flarsky reunites with his childhood crush, Charlotte Field, now one of the most influential women in the world. As she prepares to make a run for the Presidency, Charlotte hires Fred as her speechwriter and sparks fly."Rotten Tomatoes score: 81%Why you should see it: The trailer for "Long Shot" made it seem like yet another movie where an incredibly successful and attractive woman fell for an underdog guy, which likely led to many people writing it off before giving the movie a shot. But the movie itself manages to stay above that trope and deliver a message about morals and love and the double-standards women are held to.Release date: May 24, 2019Synopsis: "When troubled musical prodigy Charlotte (Allison Williams) seeks out Elizabeth (Logan Browning), the new star pupil of her former school, the encounter sends both musicians down a sinister path with shocking consequences."Rotten Tomatoes score: 73%Why you should see it: This is another Netflix original that's worth watching if only for the completely off-the-rails plot. We won't spoil anything here, but as far as thriller movies go, "The Perfection" is one of the most riveting and horrifying and unique films you'll find on Netflix right now.Release date: May 24, 2019Synopsis: "On the eve of their high school graduation, two academic superstars and best friends realize they should have worked less and played more. Determined not to fall short of their peers, the girls try to cram four years of fun into one night."Rotten Tomatoes score: 97%Why you should see it: Starring Beanie Feldstein and Kaitlyn Dever, this R-rated comedy is actress Olivia Wilde's directorial debut. It's surprising, hilarious, sex-positive, and an overall great example of high school party movies done right. Release date: Jul 3, 2019Synopsis: "A couple travels to Sweden to visit a rural hometown's fabled mid-summer festival. What begins as an idyllic retreat quickly devolves into an increasingly violent and bizarre competition at the hands of a pagan cult."Rotten Tomatoes score: 83%Why you should see it: Writer and director Ari Aster's brightly lit, flower-laden horror movie is a fascinating examination of toxic relationships. "Midsommar" didn't draw as large of an audience as Aster's 2018 "Hereditary," but it's one that more people should see.Release date: July 12, 2019Synopsis: "A Chinese family discovers their grandmother has only a short while left to live and decide to keep her in the dark, scheduling a wedding to gather before she dies."Rotten Tomatoes score: 99%Why you should see it: With a near-perfect rating from critics, "The Farewell" is a gorgeously told story based on writer and director Lulu Wang's real-life experience. This was yet another indie movie that deserved more recognition at the box office. Release date: July 12, 2019Synopsis: "A young woman, while attempting to save her father during a category five hurricane, finds herself trapped in a flooding house and must fight for her life against alligators."Rotten Tomatoes score: 83%Why you should see it: This R-rated movie continues the great tradition of creature-based horror movies like "Jaws" and "Alien" and "Tremors." This alligator-attack story is told with a masterful sense of suspense, and is a great watch for anyone who enjoys bloody and self-aware thrillers.Release date: September 13, 2019Synopsis: "Inspired by the viral New York Magazine article, 'Hustlers' follows a crew of savvy former strip club employees who band together to turn the tables on their Wall Street clients."Rotten Tomatoes score: 88%Why you should see it: Jennifer Lopez and Constance Wu are dynamite leads in this based-on-a-true-story drama about New York City strippers who had to hustle their way out of the 2008 financial crisis. It's equal parts sexy, thrilling, empowering, and also serves as a cautionary tale for men and women alike.Release date: September 27, 2019Synopsis: "Three teenagers must help a Yeti return to his family while avoiding a wealthy man and a zoologist who want it for their own needs."Rotten Tomatoes score: 82%Why you should see it: Universal has put out two of the best animated films of the year — "Abominable" and "How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World." At a time with Disney is still dominated the children's movie landscape, it's worth seeing the other animated movies out there. "Abominable" is sweet, magical, and enjoyable for audiences of all ages.Release date: October 11, 2019Synopsis: "All unemployed, Ki-taek and his family take peculiar interest in the wealthy and glamorous Parks, as they ingratiate themselves into their lives and get entangled in an unexpected incident."Rotten Tomatoes score: 99%Why you should see it: "Parasite" is the kind of surprising movie that's best seen if you know virtually nothing about the plot. The twists and turns of the movie (which is a satirical comedy, drama, thriller, and social allegory all at once) make watching "Parasite" a pure joy. You'll leave the theater thinking about this movie for days to come.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
