Naming its first all-electric crossover the Mustang Mach-E is certainly a controversial decision for Ford, as the new model does not have much in common with the iconic pony car, besides some styling references.It’s the first time the Mustang name has been used on anything but a two-door car and Ford is hoping the nameplate will help its first all-electric SUV stand out from the competition. It’s a two-way street, however, since the move could also dilute the appeal of the nameplate if it proves unsuccessful.Mind you, chances are fans will eventually get over this if the 2021 Mustang Mach-E is good enough. U.S. buyers in general, and the Trump administration in particular, will not be thrilled to learn the new model will be made in Mexico, though.Related: Ford Mustang Mach-E Vs. Tesla Model Y – How Do They Compare?In March, Ford confirmed the electric crossover would be built at its plant in Cuautitlan, Mexico but that was before revealing it was going to be named the Mustang Mach-E. As CNBC points out, importing such an established American name to the U.S. could be risky given President Donald Trump’s tough stance on the new North American trade deal (USMCA) and on U.S. automakers importing vehicles from Mexico, China, and other places.Furthermore, the Mustang Mach-E will debut in the midst of a highly contentious election cycle, where automotive manufacturing jobs and plant locations will be high on the candidates’ agendas, particularly Donald Trump’s.U.S. automakers have traditionally chosen to manufacturing iconic American vehicles such as Mustang, Corvette and Jeep Wrangler in the United States because it’s part of their appeal. However, one could argue that Ford has made the decision of building the 2021 Mustang Mach-E south of the border to keep the costs down.In the end, that should benefit U.S. buyers, unless Ford decides to pocket the savings instead of pursuing an aggressive pricing strategy. Either way, rival Tesla might jump at the chance to tell buyers that its EVs are made in the United States, while Ford’s electric crossover is not.Being built in Mexico only means that they’re testing the waters with this product and are not too certain about its potential success. All the money-makers that Ford has right now, or has in store for the future (Bronco) have already been negotiated with the Unions for production in US plants, so this was probably one that both Ford and the unions are iffy on as far as public reception goes. If this product becomes popular, you can see future performance EV’s being built here in the US, but until then, both Ford and the Unions prioritize job security over being able to build a potential feature product in one of its US plants and put jobs at risk.After the initial hype and first-takers, I’m not so sure the Bronco will be such a success, in a market that Jeep has in the bag. Plus, it’ll likely be priced higher than a comparable Jeep, at least $50 large to start. And if the economy turns after the election, it’s toast.It will all depend on styling. The Raptor was a huge success despite the fact that you could do a very similar build in the aftermarket and that was because it looked and behaved differently from anything else seen in the Truck space. Ford has a chance to do that with the Bronco, and I think it can. These pictures obviously exaggerate the bodylines of the upcoming Bronco, but it looks more, both modern, and yet retro than anything we’ve seen on the streets in a long time. https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/badc0ca73d57c28f2139087daa87bf180f610fa1c3fbcda116bf5be0ea9a01ff.jpg https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/33a14c77ebb4556e0c6e5458f69d4e432a4c962b25d59c12e0d7e29e4f78e4b5.jpgI disagree. I’ve NEVER seen a Raptor. On a similar tack, I’ve NEVER seen a Jeep Gladiator, and remember all the hype in here about that? I’ll see both this week at our Auto Show, but probably never again. Car enthusiast opinions in here don’t reflect the mass market, obviously.You have never seen a Raptor or Gladiator?? Where do you live? My location is more rural, however we do spend quite a bit of time in the city as well. I have seen plenty of both, I cant say if they are a “sales success” based on what I see on the road here, but if they weren’t popular they wouldn’t keep getting made.You’re blind, not paying attention, or live under a rock. The sales numbers from FCA and Ford show both vehicles are very successful. It’s been 3 model years since the current Raptor was released and you can still find $10000 markups on them. Of course, I can also find $5000 discounts on them too.I see the raptor on a daily basis here in Portland area. Where bouts do you live?If this is the plant that is building the outgoing Fusion, then quality should be quite good. After the first model year.Trump’s gotta back away from the automotive industry right now. His ‘America First’ thing ruined everything since 2017. Hovever, what if a new US plant was built and the Mach E’s US and Canada production took place there?He didn’t ruin anything. Those before him sold our country to the lions.Why build a new US plant when Ford, along with most other companies, has excess capacity globally?Putting the name aside (because we’re just beating a dead mustang at this point) I REALLY like this car. IF I get one I’d have to get the GT in Grabber Blue. Of course, Ford showed that off at their presentation but you can’t actually reserve a GT in Grabber Blue on their website. So WTF Ford..IMO the pricing is rather good. I live in Colorado so the Federal and State tax credits would take $10000 off the price for me. I’m also impressed by the look of the interior. The design is un-Mustang like in that you don’t get the dual canopy look of all past Mustangs but the material quality also looks rather un-Mustang like in that it looks really good. The only challenge here, for me, is the 250mi (targeted) range for the GT. It really shows how much of a lead Tesla has in electric motors and batteries. Tesla has done a lot of development in making their motors more powerful and efficient and of course they are constantly working on the battery chemistry to make them hold more capacity.One thing Ford will have a big advantage is in manufacturing capacity. They won’t be building these things in tents. If demand exceeds capacity, they can always ramp up production in another plant. IMO, the real challenge is making sure they have enough batteries.The white and grabber blue are the best colors for this one!It’s a tax credit not a rebate.I don’t think this article is correct. I think they planed on making it in Mexico, then got switched to Flat Rock, MI.Americans need to stop being narcissistic and evil nation of people. Foreign parts are better than american.That depends on where theyre made…The UAW is driving its own jobs out of the country. Well done, UAW, well done.Why couldn’t they have just called it the Mach-E?? lolPeugeot Sport’s new 208 Rally 4 will make its racing debut this weekend.The M52 VW Golf GTI Stage 1 power upgrade will cost you around $926.Toyota brought a wide range of 2020 GR Supra concepts to the 2019 SEMA Show.Duke Dynamics’ Lamborghini Aventador widebody kit can be made of fiberglass, carbon fiber, or both.Along with de Meo, Toyota exec Didier Leroy is also being considered by the French automaker.The M8 Gran Coupe makes up for well over 40 percent of BMW’s M8 daily production.The facelifted Audi Q5 is expected to premiere in the first quarter of 2020 with visual and technical updates.Ford is going to build the new electric Mustang Mach-E in Mexico.The BMW 7-Series is going to get an all-electric version, as our first batch of spy shots reveals.Sure, this 156 GTA looks pristine and has only 9k miles, but at $46,000, it definitely ain’t cheap.