3 Min Read(Reuters) - Ford Motor Co (F.N) has tried and failed to generate interest in utilitarian electric vehicles such as a battery-powered Focus compact car. Now, the company is using the high-performance image of its Mustang muscle cars to sell an electric SUV. Here are some details of the Mustang Mach E’s design and performance. What’s in the name? The Mustang Mach E name is a reference to the high-performance “Mach 1” versions of the Mustang sports car that Ford has offered at various times. How much will it cost? Ford says the Mach E will start at about $43,000. There will be three versions to start with: Select, Premium and First Edition. In 2021, Ford plans a “California Route 1” model and in the spring of 2021 a high-performance GT model. How long will it run on a charge? Ford is aiming for 230 miles (370 km) of driving range per charge for standard models, and 300 miles for “extended range” models. The rival Tesla Model Y sport utility has a 300-mile range for rear-drive models, and 280 miles of range for all-wheel drive and performance models.  How fast is it? Tesla Inc (TSLA.O) Chief Executive Elon Musk pioneered high-performance electric vehicles. Ford plans to join Porsche and other automakers in catching up. Ford is aiming to make the standard Mach E’s time from 0 to 60 miles per hour faster than the least expensive Porsche Macan sport utility. The Mach E GT’s acceleration target is in the “mid-3-second” range - on a par with a high-performance Porsche 911, Ford said. How big is the dashboard screen? Ford will offer a 15.5 inch screen in the Mach E. The Tesla Model 3 offers a 15-inch (38 cm)screen. Ford has developed a new generation of its Sync infotainment software that can be updated over the air, like a Tesla. When will the Mach E go on sale? Ford will start taking reservations for Mach Es on Sunday, Nov. 17, asking customers to put down a $500 deposit. Vehicles are scheduled to start shipping to customers in late 2020. Where’s the growl? Mustang coupes deliver a distinctive engine growl that is as much a part of the brand as the pony logo. The Mach E will have no pistons or exhaust pipes. Ford said it will make noises in three modes: Whisper, Engage and Unbridled. How much can it haul? The Mach E will have 59.6 cubic feet of load space with the rear seats folded down. The vehicle will also have a front trunk, or “frunk,” that can carry 4.8 cubic feet of stuff - and has a drain in the bottom that makes it usable as a drink cooler. Reporting by Joe White in Detroit; Editing by Matthew LewisAll quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.© 2019 Reuters. All Rights Reserved.