Tesla will begin the construction of its new Gigafactory in Berlin in the first quarter of 2020, according to a German official.The American EV maker has signed a declaration of intent with the German state of Brandenburg, where the new Gigafactory will be located, said Joerg Steinbach, the state’s Economics minister, according to AutoNews.Earlier this week, Elon Musk announced that Tesla will build its European manufacturing plant near the yet-to-open Berlin Brandenburg international airport and will establish a new Research AND Development center within the city’s limits.Related: Elon Musk Says Brexit Made UK “Too Risky” For Tesla’s European GigafactoryThe new Gigafactory will produce batteries, electric motors and vehicles, starting with the upcoming Model Y SUV and followed by the Model 3 at a later date.State authorities said that Tesla’s investment in the area will be “in the billions”, with the first phase of production to launch in 2021 and help create between 3,000 to 3,500 new jobs, rising to 7,000 to 8,000 later on.Steinbach also called Tesla’s schedule for the factory an ambitious one. “They will have to submit documents at record speed,” he said.Brandenburg, one of the five federal states in the former East Germany, was one of the top contenders for Tesla’s European Gigafactory as it offered at least 100 million euros in aid to the American manufacturer.Meanwhile, Tesla is about to start sales of Model 3 vehicles built at its all-new Gigafactory in China, which was built in record time. Building a plant in Germany, however, is expected to be more challenging for the company, as the country has some of the highest labor and energy costs worldwide.At a time when other manufacturers are moving out of Western Europes, Elon thinks he can buck the trend with his cult-hyped loss-making electric vehicles? Interesting theory.And I don’t think Brexit is in his favor too.The average Brexit voter doesn’t care about whether tesla suceeds or fails.The average Brexit voter doesn’t care if UK economy succeeds or fails…The UK’s economy will fail if we don’t worship Elon and his gigafactory? Dream on. You globalist EV-worshipping cultists are insane.That’s why UK was out of question.It’s actually a genius strategy, and people who understand this just bought a lot more shares. Building a factory in Germany means German-made Tesla aka. no more jokes about quality or reliability.Nobody is making any jokes about Polish-built Fiat 500s or Slovenian built Renault Twingo.Just because a Tesla is built in Germany, it doesn’t mean it has been designed there. They’ll still suffer from the same problems we’re seeing all over the owner’s forums.Built quality. Not designed quality. Duh. Anyway, wait and see.If the engineering and technology a car is originally designed with is poor, the finished result won’t be any better.Side note: isn’t Musk’s ancestors originally came from Germany? Just a question.Most white South Africans can trace their heritage back to the Netherlands or the UK. His father is South African and his mother Canadian, which is why he holds South African, Canadian, and US citizenship.IIRC EU labor laws prohibit running a manufacturePeugeot Sport’s new 208 Rally 4 will make its racing debut this weekend.The M52 VW Golf GTI Stage 1 power upgrade will cost you around $926.Toyota brought a wide range of 2020 GR Supra concepts to the 2019 SEMA Show.Duke Dynamics’ Lamborghini Aventador widebody kit can be made of fiberglass, carbon fiber, or both.Along with de Meo, Toyota exec Didier Leroy is also being considered by the French automaker.The M8 Gran Coupe makes up for well over 40 percent of BMW’s M8 daily production.The facelifted Audi Q5 is expected to premiere in the first quarter of 2020 with visual and technical updates.Ford is going to build the new electric Mustang Mach-E in Mexico.The BMW 7-Series is going to get an all-electric version, as our first batch of spy shots reveals.Sure, this 156 GTA looks pristine and has only 9k miles, but at $46,000, it definitely ain’t cheap.