Bill Ford at The Factory with the 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EOver the past half century, much has changed. But some things remained constant. Chevrolet Corvettes and Ford Mustangs were coupes or convertibles with engines up front, usually thundering V8s, driving the rear wheels. But we live in strange times in 2019. The Corvette has finally gone mid-engined after decades of false starts. Now the newest member of the Mustang family is a four-door crossover with seating for five and electric motors for propulsion. Welcome to the age of the Ford Mustang Mach-E. Mustang Family Photo When Ford introduced the original Mustang 55 years ago, it was an immediate smash success and has since become an icon of the brand. In fact it is such an Icon that as Ford discontinued most of its car models, it created a new group called Icons that includes the Mustang, GT, Bronco and Raptor. Every production Mustang to date has been a two-door coupe or convertible with 2+2 seating. But right from the era of the Fairlane committee that put together the Mustang business case back in 1962, there have been thoughts about expanding the family. Peruse the images from the Ford design archives over the years and you will find dozens of concepts for sedans and even station wagons. None ever made it past the prototype stage, but the idea has always been there. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-E GTSo how did we get here?In January 2017, then Ford CEO Mark Fields announced plans to introduce a new electric SUV along with hybrid versions of the Mustang and F-150 in 2020. But 2017 was a tumultuous year at Ford (as was 2018 and 2019). In May, Fields was replaced by Jim Hackett. Hackett led a review of all of the company’s product plans including the electrification strategy. Some of the previously announced plans got a significant revamp. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EWhen work began on Ford’s first bespoke electric vehicle, it was conceived as a front-wheel-drive crossover very similar to the new Escape. In fact during a briefing ahead of the official reveal we were shown a clay model of that vehicle which was essentially just an electric Escape. When Ford introduced the Focus Electric back in 2012, it was roundly criticized for being little more than a compliance car, an existing internal combustion vehicle stuffed with batteries and an electric motor. In fact, most of the development work on the Focus Electric was originally done by supplier Magna International. Magna had built a couple of electric Focuses in the process of developing its motor and electronics technologies in 2008 and pitched them to Ford. Following the financial collapse in late 2008, Ford announced that it would put the electric Focus into production. Since the car wasn’t really designed to accommodate a large lithium ion battery, it had only 76 miles of range and almost no cargo space. In the years since, other EVs have come to market with better ranges and more usability, but the cost premium of electrification still makes it challenging to create affordable EVs. Even Tesla has admitted that it couldn’t actually afford to offer the promised $35,000 Model 3. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EAfter taking the reins, Hackett established Team Edison, a group dedicated to developing business models that could make electric vehicles commercially viable for Ford. Among the first decisions made by Team Edison was an end to compliance cars. The EVs Ford would make had to be appealing enough to customers that they would want to buy them on their own merits. Team Edison would also put effort into addressing the pain points of EV ownership such as charging access. Having clearly learned from the market (if not business) success of Tesla, the original vehicle concept was ditched and a more performance oriented SUV was adopted instead. The world got the first hint of this at the January 2018 North American International Auto Show when Ford showed a teaser video showing a Mustang and an Explorer entering the Corktown Factory home of Team Edison, mixing with lightning bolts and ending with the Mach 1 badge. Mustang fans complained loudly at the thought of an electric SUV taking that historic badge and Ford listened. Based on a timeline chart shown during a background briefing, the Mach 1 will indeed be returning for the 2021 model year, but it may end up being the promised Mustang hybrid. The performance electric utility would instead be called the Mach-E and it would also be a Mustang, but a very different one. As soon as I heard Ford acknowledge this, I could hear the howls in my mind that I expected to hear from pony car fans on November 17. But Ford made clear that the Mach-E is not replacing the classic Mustang, but growing the family. Gasoline burning Mustangs will likely continue rolling off the line as long as fans keep buying them and the laws allow for them. The goal of the Mach-E is to bring the traits that those fans have loved about Mustang for more than half a century to a whole new crowd of customers. At least most of those traits. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EBack in the mid-1970s, the Mustang II was a necessary bridge to preserve the brand as fuel economy and emissions regulations came into force. Today, many people consider it less than a true Mustang, but recognize why it needed to exist. Hopefully forty years from now, there will be more love for the Mach-E while also recognizing the need for the brand to evolve. Despite its new form factor and propulsion system, it shares both more and less with the most loved Mustangs over the years than the Mustang II. While it is larger and taller than any pony before, it does draw on the heritage. There are clearly elements of this design that go all the way back to the sketches of Gale Halderman from late 1962 that ultimately became the first Mustang. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EAt the front, the fascia hints at the shark nose of that original car although in profile it is in fact more vertical than sloping, a sacrifice to the vagaries of aerodynamics. Where the grille would normally be, there is sculpting that evokes the look but is solid. Thermostatically controlled shutters in the lower fascia open as needed to provide cooling for the battery. The three slots in the headlamp buckets of the original are reflected in the signature lighting as they have been on Mustangs for several years. At the back a new form of the classical tri-bar taillamps is clearly visible. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EWhile Halderman’s original sketches showed only the notchback coupe, the fastback wasn’t far behind. Since the end of the Fox-body era in 1993, all Mustangs have been fastbacks or convertibles. While a drop top is almost certainly not in the cards for Mach-E, the design team has incorporated the fastback profile. The bodywork surrounding the side glass sweeps down to the rear much as current Mustang coupes do. The actual roofline actually extends back a few more inches, ending in a spoiler above the rear glass. This extra bit of roof provides for real usable rear headroom and is finished in contrasting black to emphasize the fastback aspect. Rather than the hockey stick side scoops of the original, the flanks of the Mustang Mach-E are heavily sculpted, giving it a modern and athletic stance. The front fender arches and rear haunches also evoke Mustangs of past and present. Compared to the original concept, the proportions changed significantly. While the overall length is similar, the wheelbase was stretched from 109 to just over 117 inches, pushing the wheels closer to the corners. The hoodline was raised up, contributing to a more Mustang-like stance and the A-pillar pushed back for a longer hood. Dimensionally, the closest comparison is to the BMW X4. At 186-inches long, the Mach-E is 1.5-inches shorter overall than the BMW but the wheelbase is 4.2-inches longer. While the Mach-E has vastly more room inside than current Mustang coupes, the classic models are 2.5-inches longer from bumper to bumper. At 63-inches, the Mach-E is 8-inches taller than the Mustang coupe. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EAll things considered, as a higher riding, four door utility, the Mach-E does a good job of melding classic and modern design elements to create something new with a hint of BMW X4 profile, and lots of Mustang elements that are all its own. We’ll likely see the seventh-generation Mustang adopt more of these same cues when it eventually arrives. What’s underneath?The Mustang Mach-E is the first vehicle built on Ford’s first dedicated EV platform. Like other contemporary EVs, this is based on a skateboard platform that was articulated by GM’s 2002 Autonomy concept. The same premise has been adopted in varying forms by most companies now developing or building EVs. The central portion of the chassis consists of a large, flat lithium ion battery pack. Frame rails form the perimeter and provide extra protection against side intrusion. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EA strut style suspension sits at the front corners while a new multi-link setup supports the rear end. The GT will also get Magneride dampers to further improve ride and handling. The standard range version of the Mach-E has a 75.7-kWh battery for a projected 230 mile range on the EPA driving cycle. The optional extended range model should will have 98.8-kWh and a projected range of 300 miles. The larger pack weighs about 1,313-pounds while the smaller one comes in at 1,054-pounds. Both versions should be close to the same range as the Model Y. The liquid cooled pack contains standardized modules filled with lithium ion pouch cells from LG Chem. The pack is designed to allow dealers to service it by replacing modules of cells if needed rather than the entire pack. The packs will be assembled on-site at the Cuautitlan, Mexico factory where the Fiesta has been built and the Mach-E is assembled. While Ford hasn’t sold a lot of battery electric vehicles, it has a pretty good track record with electrified vehicles overall. Since launching the original Escape hybrid in 2004, it has sold more than 800,000 hybrid, plug-in hybrid and battery electric vehicles containing more than 100 million cells and 1.6 million motors. The first big change that came along with the switch to being a Mustang was moving the main drive motor from the front axle to the rear. The Mustang Mach-E will be available in three propulsion variants. The base configuration has only a 210-kW (281-hp) rear motor and rear drive. The mid-level adds a smaller 50-kW (67-hp) front motor for a combined output of 332-hp and 471 lb-ft of torque. The top-end Mach-E GT gets the same larger motor at both ends. However, because of the power output limits on the current battery and power electronics configuration, the total combined output is 459-hp and 612 lb-ft. However, since the motors are rated for over 100-hp more, it is conceivable that at some point we will see a version with upgraded components that can feed the motors up to their limits. Even in its current form though the Mach-E GT has nearly the same peak torque as the new Shelby GT500 and it is being delivered instantly at all speeds.According to Ford, the mid-level AWD Mach-E should accelerate from 0-60 in somewhere between a base Porsche Macan and the Macan Turbo which should put it about the mid-5-second range. The Mach-E GT is expected to be similar to the Porsche 911 GTS or the mid-3-second range. If delivered, these numbers would put the Mach-E among the fastest Mustangs ever, with the GT in the ballpark of the latest Shelby GT500. Given the way most EVs sprint off the line, that should be quite achievable although it may fall a bit short of performance versions of the Model Y.The motors are all permanent magnet types with integrated coaxial planetary reduction gears. The power electronics uses silicon switches and the system has a 400-volt architecture. The Mach-E will support 150-kW charging similar to the Audi e-tron but shy of the 270-kW for the Porsche Taycan. Nonetheless, a 150-kW charger can add 47 miles of range in 10 minutes and you can get from 10% to 80% charge in about 45 minutes. The motors are oil-cooled and along with the power electronics and control software, all developed in-house at Ford. For initial production, a Ford supplier will manufacture the motors, but as production scales up, it plans to move motor production in-house. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EThe Charging ChallengeLike Audi, Ford is partnering with Amazon to provide customers with access to licensed installers that can put in a 48A smart wall charger at home that will add 32 miles per hour to the battery. The Mach-E will also come with a portable charger that works with either 120V or 240V outlets and charges at up to 10.5-kW. Plugged into a standard NEMA 240V dryer outlet, the mobile charging cord will add 22 miles per hour of range, while a 120V outlet will add just 3 miles per hour. Through the FordPass app, Team Edison has also done deals with Electrify America, GreenLots and other charging networks still to be named to provide access to a network of what will be 35,000 charging points at over 20,000 locations. Through FordPass, drivers will be able to find available chargers and pay for charging without having to use multiple apps for each network. The charger information will also be available directly through the SYNC 4 infotainment system. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EThe Tech SideSpeaking of SYNC 4, the Mustang Mach-E will be the first new model to get this new system with its 15.5-inch touchscreen display. The interior of this new model benefits greatly from being electric with a completely flat floor and plenty of room both front and rear. This is the first ever Mustang can actually carry five adults comfortably. While Ford has brought some Mustang cues inside the Mach-E, this is a design that definitely takes advantage of being electric. Unlike Audi which kept the e-Tron similar to its contemporaries, the Mach-E has a much simplified dashboard. The materials and sculpting of the dashboard do hint at the traditional Mustang dual brow, but it is much more subdued. The instrument cluster is a wide-screen LCD display standing freely above the steering column while the central display is a portrait orientation. Unlike Tesla, which tends to eschew physical controls wherever possible, Ford at least acknowledges that there are times when a touchscreen is less than ideal. Case in point is the volume control. Ford has embedded a large central rotary knob in the bottom portion of the touchscreen that allows the driver to twist and press for functions like volume. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EVisually, the knob looks very similar to the set used on recent Range Rover models. These British SUVs use a two-screen setup for the infotainment and climate controls. The lower screen is primarily for climate and features two knobs directly on the surface of the screen. The Ford system doesn’t have any direct electrical connection from the knob. Instead, the hub of the knob is bonded to the screen and as the knob rotates, it has a capacitive connection to the screen, much as if you drew a circle with your finger on the screen to adjust the volume. It’s an interesting approach that certainly reduces the part complexity of the total system, but we’ll see how durable it is. While SYNC 3 has had support for over-the-air (OTA) updates to the infotainment system over a wifi connection, the Mach-E will be the first Ford vehicle to get comprehensive support for OTA for all systems in the vehicle. That means Mach-E owners will be able to get regular updates that improve or add functionality and even address issues that today require a visit to a dealer for a software re-flash. Among the features that customers will be able to get is the first hands-free driver assist functionality in a Ford. Premium and GT trim levels will come from the factory equipped with the necessary hardware to support this partial automation system although it won’t be enabled until some time after launch. When it is turned on, it will just magically appear without a dealer visit, just like a Tesla. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EThe experienceThe extended wheelbase of the Mach-E makes this the roomiest Mustang ever. There is plenty of head and legroom for adults and with three men in the back we were shoulder to shoulder, but far from scrunched. Five adults heading to lunch in the Mach-E wouldn’t be a problem at all and with a flat floor, no one will have to straddle any humps. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EWith 29 cubic feet behind the seats, there is also ample cargo space and again following the pattern set by Tesla, there is a front trunk as well. At 4.8 cubic feet, the front trunk is large enough to hold a large carryon suitcase and a full size backpack making it far more useful than the shallow storage bins you’ll find in the e-Tron or i-Pace. Unlike the Tesla Model 3, it takes advantage of the taller hood to provide a deep well that is suitable for carrying several full bags of groceries. Since this is intended to serve as a lifestyle activity vehicle, Ford has opted to leave the front trunk unlined and included a drain in the bottom just as Honda does with the bed trunk in the Ridgeline pickup. That makes it perfect for storing muddy hiking boots, wet beach gear or even serving as a storage bin for ice and refreshments at a tailgate party. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EOne of the characteristics that Mustang owners have always loved about the car is the visceral appeal of the sound, especially when powered by a V8 engine. Obviously, an electric vehicle lacks that. But if you’ve ever watched a rough cut of a film before the sound bed has been added, you’ll know that it is a very disconcerting experience. Some degree of ambient sound is generally appreciated. The challenge for the Mach-E team was to craft a soundtrack for the vehicle that was authentic to its roots as both an EV and a Mustang. They studied many sounds including those of science fiction films like Blade Runner as well as contemporary machines like Formula E race cars. In the end, they gave the Mach-E three distinct modes for the driver to choose from. Whisper mode is designed to give the driver a relaxed, chill experience with subdued sounds that aren’t silent, but can help de-stress on a long commute. At the top is unbridled mode. The sound piped into the cabin is a blend of the mechanical elements of the electric motor and gears along with an element of throaty rumble that no one will mistake for a Coyote V8, but that still has some of the aggression expected of a Mustang. In between is the engaged mode that as expected offers a tamer version of that throatiness. Is it authentic? To the degree that anything that is completely synthetic and meant to evoke a feeling rather than providing actual feedback of what is happening can be, it is at least fitting of something called Mustang. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EThe rideIt’s not often that Ford or most automakers offer a ride in a prototype vehicle so far in advance of production. But that is what we got during a preview two days ahead of the public reveal of the Mustang Mach-E. It was no coincidence that Ford chose to do this preview and the public unveiling at the Hawthorne Municipal airport. The airport building where we were shown the Mach-E sits directly adjacent to the Tesla design studio and the factory where SpaceX builds its rockets. The Ford Mustang Mach-E was revealed in a building right next to the Tesla Design CenterAfter an initial look at the Mach-E, we climbed into a trio of integration prototypes for a ride. It’s nearly impossible and frankly foolish to make any conclusive judgements from a prototype, nearly a year before customer deliveries start, although Tesla fans do it compulsively every time that company rolls out something new. That said, on first contact the Mach-E shows great potential. As integration prototypes go, these were very solid and complete feeling, although Ford technicians no doubt spent many days go over these in great detail, tightening every nut and bolt, zip-tying wiring harness and adding velcro where needed to keep rattles to a minimum. The prototypes on hand were the mid-range models with the 50-kW front motor, putting them at about 350-hp total. We pulled out of the airport lot and drove past the SpaceX building where the first Falcon 9 to successfully land is on permanent display outside. Like any EV, these were quick off the line with instant torque. The ride quality felt good on roads that weren’t quite pristine and in unbridled mode, the Mach-E had a soundtrack that was nowhere near the wail of the flat-plane crank V8 in the GT350 at 8,000 rpm, but could well befit a Mustang with a bit more volume. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EBack on the airport property, we went through a slalom between a couple of rows of hangars that showed the flat cornering you would expect of an EV with a disproportionate amount of its mass in the floor. That was followed by a quick 0-60 launch after swinging around the other side of the hangars. Ford Icons director Dave Pericak is the former chief engineer on the Mustang having led the creation of the 2010 and 2015 generations. From there he did a stint as director of Ford Performance where he oversaw the launch of the current GT and the Le Mans victory in 2016. Pericak discussed how the Mach-E was the first production program to make extensive use of the Ford Performance racing simulator in Concord NC to accelerate the chassis development program. Given the compressed timeline after the program pivoted in late-2017, much of the initial chassis development was done in this simulator that is otherwise used on a daily basis by Ford racing drivers. From there, work moves onto roads, proving grounds and race tracks around the world for refinement and validation. Building a marketGiven the limited demand from American consumers for purely green cars like the Prius, the Ford strategy of positioning its new electrified vehicles in a way that the electrons enhance the attributes that customers are actually willing to pay for makes a lot of sense. The upcoming F-150 hybrid is being promoted as providing the electrical power that contractors need on a job site without hauling along a generator and the Lincoln Aviator Grand Touring PHEV is a performance upgrade for the three-row SUV.Making the Mach-E an addition to the Mustang family will surely upset some diehards. But since it isn’t a replacement as the Probe was originally intended to be in the late-1980s, the only real risk for Ford is diluting the Mustang brand DNA. As long as the Mach-E delivers on the performance that customers expect of a Mustang, the traditionalists seem unlikely to abandon Ford for a Dodge Challenger or Chevy Camaro. On the other hand, this may be one of the first EVs from an incumbent automaker that provides many of the attributes they love about Teslas while also having a network of dealer service outlets and parts distribution that means you won’t have to wait months for repairs. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-EThe Mustang Mach-E won’t be the affordable, mainstream EV that Elon Musk promised the Model 3 would be back in 2016. But then again, it turned out that the Model 3 wasn’t either. When deliveries of the Mustang Mach-E start next fall, it will likely have a starting price in the mid to upper $40k range for the Select trim level with pricing for the GT hitting the mid-$60k range. That means it comes in below the Europeans like the i-Pace and e-Tron and right in the range of the premium variants of the Model Y. A limited production launch edition will be available in the fall, along with the Select and Premium. The GT will follow in the spring of 2021. Unlike the Tesla, Ford will still have availability of federal tax credits when the Mustang Mach-E hits showrooms. Through the end of 2019, Ford will have sold roughly 120,000 plug-in vehicles in the U.S. (Focus Electric, Fusion Energi and C-Max Energi). With the addition of the plug-in hybrid Ford Escape, Lincoln Aviator and others, Ford will likely still be under 140,000 total plug-in sales by the end of 2020, not including the Mach-E. That means that Ford will still have tax credit eligibility well into 2021, making it more price competitive. As a Mustang, Ford probably isn’t aiming for the Mach-E to be a high-volume mainstream product, but the platform it sits on, and the technology it uses will surely find its way into other Ford and Lincoln vehicles. Ford has publicly promised six zero emissions vehicles for North America by about 2022-23. The F-150 electric has already been announced and an electric Transit van was mentioned in the recent UAW contract. By 2021, the Lincoln MKZ will be approaching the end of its run and whatever supplants it in the lineup would be a good candidate to be a battery electric vehicle. Recent rumors have also pointed to some midsize electric crossovers and the Edge and Nautilus are also nearing the end of a generational cycle. An electric Edge/Nautilus could well be Ford’s volume play in the next couple of years. While the Mustang Mach-E looks extremely promising as a product that will get customers excited, there is an important caution to consider as well. One of the important potential advantages that Ford has over Tesla and its repeated issues with actually building, delivering and supporting its products is its manufacturing experience and network of more than 3,000 dealers, more than 2,000 of which are already EV-certified. 2021 Ford Mustang Mach-ETo prove that this is actually an advantage for customers compared to buying a Tesla, Ford has to have perfect execution on the launch of the Mach-E. It cannot afford another disaster like this year’s launch of the Explorer which saw thousands of production units being held at the Chicago factory or sent to the Flat Rock, Mich. plant for rework before shipping to dealers. If that happens with Mach-E, then they are no better than Tesla. No doubt every manager and executive in Ford will be looking over this launch with a fine-toothed comb and aiming for a smooth launch. If they can deliver, this has the potential to be a real winner for Ford. General Motors has talked a lot about going electric in the 2020s, but Ford seems to be one of the companies along with Volkswagen Group that is actually making its electrification plans a reality so far.  Ford has in many respects shamelessly copied the Tesla playbook. As the only automaker to have had any significant success with EVs so far, there is a lot worth emulating about Tesla’s approach. If Ford can execute on that plan combining the best of Tesla and what it already knows, that should be good for everyone. I’ve spent my adult life working in and around the automotive industry. After earning a mechanical engineering degree from GMI I spent the next 17 years working on elec