The Aspark Owl looks like a normal exotic car, except it runs on batteries.Is the upcoming Tesla Roadster’s claimed 1.9 seconds to 60 miles an hour just too slow for you? How about 60 in just 1.69 seconds? Now that’s fast. And if you have a tick over $3 million laying around, then you should immediately phone up Japanese electric supercar maker Aspark and reserve one of the 50 Aspark Owl electric hypercars they’re making that can hit that mark, according to the company.The wide-hipped Owl foregoes any internal combustion locomotion for a brace of four electric motors that will put out a claimed 2,012 combined horsepower and 1,475 pound-feet of torque as it draws an ocean of electrons from a 64kWh battery pack on its way to that scorching zero to 60 metric, which puts it in a league closer to top fuel dragsters than anything currently prowling the streets with a license plate. The car will feature multiple driving modes (can’t wait to see what the “economy” setting is like) and three ride height settings. A retractable rear wing can rise above the Kardashian-esque tail section automatically or with a flick of a switch.The Aspark Owl's hindquarters curve and delight, and there's a retracting wing, of course. The Owl certainly looks the part, with an appropriate sci-fi supercar profile that will shape the wind on its way to a claimed 248mph top speed. But despite it’s Japanese origins, the car is being produced in Italy by the practiced hands at Manifattura Automobili Torino, who also crafted examples of the equally curvaceous (but far slower) Glickenhaus SCG003S from way back in 2015. The first Owl units are reportedly going to be ready for the road sometime in 2020.Proud owners will feel a little better about their millions paid as the Owl won’t ever need a drop of gas, and Aspark says the presumably near-silent futurecar will be able to go 248 miles on a charge, providing the driver resists attempting the 0-60 Kessel Run multiple times per charge, which won’t be easy.You sit low in the Owl, and are surrounded by soft surfaces and screens. Keeping those seats clean ... [+] could be a challenge.Of note, the bonkers zer0 to 60 time was done with a 1-foot rollout, so the absolute from-a-standstill time will likely be just a smidge slower - but who knows? A lot can happen with traction algorithms, motor controllers, batteries, electric motors and even tires in less than year. A pre-production chassis reportedly tripped the lights in 1.9 seconds just over a year ago. Progress has already been made.The purchase price for the Owl is equal to buying about a dozen of the upcoming Tesla Roadster Founders Edition electric slingshots, which will hopefully arrive shortly after the Owl comes home to roost. Tesla CEO Elon Musk has bragged that the Roadster 2.0 will be able to tear off a 0-60 time of 1.9 seconds, but perhaps only with the help of some cold-exhaust rockets tucked behind the rear license plate. It’s hard to tell if he’s kidding or not (probably not), so we hope some deep-pocketed car collector buys at least one of each and gets them to a dragstrip for an exotic EV throwdown the likes of which has never been seen before.Writer, photographer and technology evangelist, avid motorcyclist, car enthusiast and chronicler of the ongoing evolution of mobility technologies. I also write about o