Not that we weren’t expecting it, but you can pretend to be surprised that new, and this time, live images, of the new Ford Mustang Mach-e electric SUV have been spilled onto the web. CarScoops reader J.S. pointed us to the Macheforum where a single photo was shared, but a little digging on social media unearthed a series of images that appear to be screenshots. If you find anything else, you know the drill… [Updated 11/16/2019]
We weren’t supposed to see the first photos of the all-new 2021 Mustang Mach-E until November 17, but some people from Ford’s tech department thought otherwise.Thanks to them leaving images and information available to anyone visiting Ford’s U.S. customer website, we can now show you almost everything you need to know about the Mustang Mach-E. The folks from the MachE Forum were quick enough to take screenshots before Ford’s people realized their mistake and deleted the page.So what do we see here? Styling-wise, the 2021 Mustang Mach-E looks very similar to the renderings we brought you a couple of weeks ago.How Do They Compare: Ford Mustang Mach-e Vs. Tesla Model YA post shared by  CocheSpias (@cochespias) on Nov 16, 2019 at 2:49pm PSTInteresting details include the closed-off grille, Mustang-like headlights and taillights, lack of any visible door handles and the muscular haunches. Overall, the electric “crossover coupe” looks athletic, suggesting it’s capable of strong performance.Inside, the Mach-E goes for a minimalist approach that will most certainly remind people of Tesla, especially with that massive tablet-like display that dominates the dashboard. We can also spot a smaller display behind the sporty three-spoke steering wheel, as well as air vents than span across the entire width of the dash.More interestingly, though, the captions also reveal details about the Mustang Mach-E’s trim levels, powertrains and prices. Ford will offer five grades called Select, California Rt. 1, Premium, First Edition, and GT.The base Select model will feature an electric motor delivering a targeted 255 HP and 306 lb-ft (415 Nm) of torque in RWD configuration and 429 lb-ft (582 Nm) of torque in optional AWD guise. Ford expects the Mach-E Select RWD to cover 230 miles (370 km) on a single charge, with the AWD model offering a range of 210 miles (338 km).The 0-60 mph (0-96 km/h) sprint will be in the mid six-second range for the RWD model and mid five-second range for the Mach-E Select AWD. The Select will be the most affordable Mach-E with an estimated MSRP starting at $43,895.The model with the highest driving range will be the Mach-E California Rt. 1 which targets an EPA-estimated 300 miles (483 km). This is a RWD-only model with an electric motor producing 282 HP and 306 lb-ft (415 Nm) of torque and enabling a 0-60 time in the mid six-second range. The California Rt. 1 is estimated to start at $52,400.Performance-oriented customers will need to get the range-topping Mustang Mach-E GT model, which Ford claims will shoot from 0 to 60 mph (96 km/h) in the mid 3-second range. Power and torque levels for this AWD-only version are yet to be announced but the driving range is estimated at 235 miles (378 km). The GT will be priced from $60,500 and will be the last to launch in spring 2021.The first to arrive in late 2020 will be the First Edition and Premium grades, with the Select and California Rt. 1 following in early 2021.I predict Ford has a hit on their hands. Something truly different and right on time for a change. Meanwhile over at GM……………MYeah, Chevy is clearly crying that their $59k upwards priced C8 Corvette with 6,2l V8 engine is already sold out for the first production year…Tesla $250,000 lecky sports car is sold out for the first production run.
Fully paid for………Where is Chevy’s answer to this though? Do you just not understand that as brilliant as the Corvette is, it isn’t the future? If you’re a GM Lifer I don’t expect you to grasp this. MIf you care about more ecofriendly cars, Chevrolet offers you the Volt since 2011 and and the full electric Bolt since since 2017 – They just didn’t slap a historic model nametag on them. And a Hybrid version of the Corvette will be revealed soon too since it was already spotted multiple times.It’s been junk since day one. The name of this vehicle is matterless. It’s a NEW vehicle doesn’t matter what it’s called. A hybrid Corvette has NOTHING to do with this segment. Electric crossovers is where the market is going and GM has failed again to identify a trend and execute on it. Bolt and Volt, especially the latter have failed and are junk. Let me know when GM comes up with something hot or something new in a hot segment that isn’t a Corvette or a pickup truck. MYou know very well that manufacturers never work on the same timeline and that GM has more EVs in the works. Why did Ford take four years to answer the Colorado is an example. Ford had no answer to the Bolt until this.I know GM will be late to the party as usual. Because the Colorado wasn’t a priority. GM is stuck developing crap that they think they know how to do, trucks. The Bolt is a near failure. Sorry try again. MWOW…that’s a big punch in TESLA’s face…GO Mustang, GO….No way… Elon makes the best cars out there.should that be Toss-a ?I will hold my judgement until I see the normal pictures as to suppose these fake leak pictures.How is this a fake leak? Ford put it on their own website and multiple automotive sites were able to navigate to the site and make screenshots before it was taken down. I don’t think that’s a fake leak.That’s the pure definition of a fake leak. It was intentionally leaked out.Already dead car. First of, the name… Who would buy an electric car with such a name. Mustang… You mean a 5-liter V8 of an dinosaurer that pollute the world?.. Should be called something like the Ford Wonder, Ford Ebony tree or Ford EV smile…ur brain and 2.5 tons s#itty dinosaur trolleys also pollute the earth badly dumboso you basically never care for EV-car don’t you dare bringing Ebony !Ebony is a color – Stop thinking about race…I don’t like Donald Trump h itler or any other facist. You do then?-… Go figureHaha! You make me laugh because you seem to be serious. No matter the name, this thing will sell… and it arrived before the Model Y, which is huge advantage in the automotive world. I don’t know you, so I’ll just say this… wait and see.I don’t care how bright the Ford marketing guys are, or now much they spent on focus groups and surveys. Calling this a ‘Mustang’ is nonsense. Not only is it a dagger in the heart of a brand that Ford screwed up for decades before recovering, but it’s a missed opportunity to look to the future and create a new brand for a new era of motoring. This is not a Mustang.This is not a Mustang.even more bizarre is the name Mach-E California Rt. 1It’s a variant of the Mustang, not a replacment for it, of course.Calling thjs new vehicle a Mustang is NOT nonsense, if Ford is looking to expand Mustang as a standalone brand, much like Lincoln became its own brand within a brand. I agree that giving it a completely new identity would have been an option, however Ford is obviously trying to use the Mustang fanbase to give this new vehicle legs right out the gate. Expect the next Mustang to become more of a premium vehicle, and move more upmarket to compete with the new Corvette. Ford will then, most likely, offer cheaper variants of the Mustang, to keep the Mustang faithful happy.I think you’re spot on. Nice (unintended) pun there, too. “Mustang”, “legs right out the gate” Haha! Perfect.Maybe Mustang is the new brand name instead of Ford on this range, and this model would be named Mach-E?I hate the black plastic trim around the lower bumper and grille. It’s kind of like Ford wanted to make a parody about their poorly assembled products and have wide or misfitting body panels as a leading design feature. The back looks really upright. It would probably look more balanced if they had lowered the tail-lights.I don’t like the rear at all. The tails look too high and the designers just ran out of ideas on how to handle all that empty space and just decided to stretch it taller.The most undeserving name since the return of the Mitusbishi Eclipse.It would have been better served as a -Door coupe to take of Tesla. And I agree that Ford didn’t need to call it Mustang to sell it.I’d rank Blazer right up there too.You take that back, I’m just kidding.The fanboys Tesla hates this model already.should that be revolto?tacky mach-e mustang stool.These are not the best pictures for judging it but I guess time will telljust put Turbos on it, you will get 522HP instead of 255 HPIt worked for Porsche, right?At least they don’t call their SUVs 911 or Carrera.Amen………….YesssOh my goodness, even worse than I thought.I can’t believe people actually like such an ugly massive tv. It looks like a bad aftermarket addition installed by a retarded.Other than that, I think the exterior looks good, especially the rear.this is FUGLYNuh-UH!!!!!Looks like Tesla model Y (the overall shape). Could be developed – in secret – together with Tesla, to slash some cost.was wondering the same. But… seems doubtful upon second thought.I’m understanding Ford. Combination of Mustang and Tesla looked like an amazing idea in theory, now in practicality… well….You’re kidding, surely. GM has way more EV tech and experience than Ford and FCA. The Mach-E was even seen testing at GM proving grounds. What does that tell you?So says the GM fanboy! Give credit where credit is due,this a very credible effort from Ford. This is more attractive than any electric product GM has introduced so far..Amorphous blob on wheels.You can say that about just every other CUV on the road.Rumor is that the front pillow grill is intended to soften the impact on pedestrians during cars and coffee mishaps.honestly this is needed most for fauna and curbs/kerbs.I propose we formally change the word “pedestrian” to “smartphone zombie”Expansion of and competition in the EV market is a good thing. Nice to see Ford actually getting involved with something besides the woeful Focus Electric.i got range anxiety , need hybrid versionEspecially going into our winter months.Yes, this is still a big hurdle that EV makers need to address!! It seems everyone wants to gloss over the range that’s lost when it gets cold outside, but that can be a huge deal breaker for many.Well the recent blast of old man winter we just received, I spent quite a bit of time outside shoveling snow while bluetoothing music via my smartphone and I was reminded how the battery doesn’t hold nowhere near as well as in the warmer temps.Range anxiety only exists in a weak and worried mind.No such thing as range anxiety, it is range deficiency.Name should have been reserved for a true Mustang EV,.. it’s an abomination on a CUV.I think this will be a big hit. Just pinged a buddy, and he had done work on it, which of course he could not talk about until this here leak. LIGHTNING would have been a great name to resurrect, in MY opinion. I love the BMW x4, and this ticks my X4 boxes. Here is hoping for a good product and successful launch! Competition drives people and this will be good.So does their tagline foretell MORE MUSTANG variants? “Welcome to the Stable”LIGHTNING
——
I like it.I disagree. They do need to resurrect the name but not in this manner.I’ll admit though.. I think it might be the best looking EV (the bar is low) America has produced—nicer than the Tesla Y at 1/2 the price.In what planet is it half the price? LOL. The Long Range RWD Model Y with 300mi is $48k. The Mach E Premium RWD with 300mi is $51k.I’m not sure how you got half price out of that.Oops.. meant model X .. the one with the butterfly doors.. Tesla noob I am..You are right .. the Y is comparative to this I guess? Anyhow, this Mach-e is much nicer than the Y and X IMO.Yes, Y. Though taste is subjective. The Y has much cleaner lines. It is far less affectatious. Some people prefer it. The Mach is also nice. They will both do well.Interestingly enough I just saw a model Y it’s nice. Don’t see many in Miami because people just go for the X.I would have to give the Fisker the “best-looking EV” award; nobody else comes close!lol at first I thought the interior pic was some Tesla ad in the middle of the article.Like the styling, trim levels, pricing.
Dislike the name.
HATE the massive touchscreen.Surprisingly this is very well done it looks good. Nice range a nice performance.Color me impressed so far! This is shaping up to be very cool,nice job Ford! Only negative,the name should have been Mach-E!Everything is passable, but what’s with that nose? I guess they didn’t want it to be bulbous upfront, but denting in the bumper like that looks like they rushed design a bit.I dig this. I really do. Heck I could see myself owning one. However, Mustang, really? WTF man. They coulda called it the Maverick. That would have fit. That would have made sense. How about the Pinto? They could say they finally fixed the gas tank. Of course, if the batteries start exploding they’ll have the perfect name.But for now, I’ll shall dub thee the FauxStang.I know this isn’t the site for the Comment of the Day, but…this is the Comment of the Day.Mavericks were awesome.If this was a 2 door coupe and not a 4 door CUV, the Mustang name would be fine.Is it a Ford at all? Can’t see the blue oval anywhere?The regular Mustang doesn’t have any blue ovals.not a Ford but a Xerox.There’s no blue oval on any Mustang either and its really a Ford.The most interesting thing here is that Ford is also following the same convergence premiered by Tesla and then by Jaguar-Land Rover, VW and Honda: a flat battery on the floor that makes the floor being also flat and, if single motored, this motor is mounted on the rear. Ford also benchmarked Tesla when it comes to have a front trunk, absent on the VW ID.3 and the Honda E, and the kind of instrumentation seen on the dashboard, very Model 3-ish but having some information right in front of the driver.As we have that deal between Ford and VW that encompasses electric cars and the use of MEB platform, it remains to be seen if the MEB was jointly developed by the two groups and they just formalized this on that official announcement of it’s something leaded only by VW that Ford is taking advantage. For now, the Mach-E seems to me a fully-blooded Ford and maybe the MEB will be used just for some smaller models.EVERYBODY know Ford is the modern XEROX!It’s marketing genius as far as the general public is concerned.Ford now has eclipse Tesla in BEVs with the Mustang Mach E! Ford has copy Tesla model Y interior and added in a separate instrument cluster too! Tesla just could not afford to do that.? https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/1d37b4ea0fa3c88618ff58d35d07442f624557a4102c3e89a8e0b9ec79e7f0b9.jpgNot with that stupid touchscreen!The Mustang that wants to be a TeslaLooks really good exterior wise. Not a fan of the interiorBooooo! I was expecting something lower and wider. This doesn’t seem to have any visual appeal.Anything that starts with “BOOOOOO”, and deservingly so……,definitely gets an up vote from me!
Lol
I’m not feeling it at all!Model Y will be the #1 sellerThis is Definitely better to look at than a Model Y.nO YOU FOOL. The model Y is better-AirheadVERY hard to do worse than a Y……….Sorry but this looks better than the Y.NOT my favourite Ford.Ford should have called this a ProbETHAT WOULD BE IRONIC AS THERE WAS TALK BACK IN THE DAY THAT THE PROBE WAS GOING TO BE OR REPLACE THE MUSTANG.I remember that well. I wonder how close it got to that actually happening?Yes. You shove it your backside and it probes the large colon for cancer.FOR WHAT IT IS IT’S NOT BAD LOOKING EXCEPT FOR THE MESSY FRONT AND REAR BUMPERS BUT THE NAME IS JUST WRONG.The interior is fairly reminiscent of Tesla’s Model 3 interior, if Tesla’s Model 3 interior had been executed by a company that knows what it’s doing. I’m not usually a fan of Ford’s interiors, but this looks like a decent amount of time, effort and money has been spent on it.I remember the period of time when I lost my occupation few months back from my organization where I have given a lot of time and hardwork. I was in no way into programs similar to make money “overnight” which later on turned into an internet marketing strategies where you ought to firstly get interested customers and then sell a product to family and friends or anyone in order that they will be in your team. This online job has given me liberty to work-at-home and now a days I can dedicate precious time with my children and get plenty of leisure time to go out on a family holidays. This job has provided me an opportunity to get earnings as much as $21,000-$22,000 every 4 weeks by doing simple web-based job. Go and check most astounding work opportunity.>>>>>>>>>>>>> ACCEPTCOCOA.ERLEGEN.DEhow is this thing a Mustang?It’s not…………….Says so right on the back…Doesn’t actually say “mustang”To be fair, neither does a Mustang.Fords calling this the mustang Mach-E. Guess it doing it doesn’t need the word to be a Mustang.Designers really need to come up with a better way to deal with grille-less cars…I like what Jaguar did with the I-Pace as did the judges of the 2019 World Car Design of the Year award.Doesn’t look half bad tbh.Silly to call this a Mustang. People were upset with the Charger name being used on a 4-door sedan. I wonder how Mustang fans will react to the name they love being used on an SUV?I gotta admit, this is pretty impressive over all. I think Ford might have a big hit on their hands.Any reason why this couldn’t have been a stretched 4-door sedan (off the Mustang platform) with AWD?
You could even call it the Lincoln Mk9.If the Mustang does become a standalone sub-brand, that still might happen. There were rumors of an A7-like 5-door based on the next generation CD6 Mustang.Ford should have taken a marketing cue from Porsche. The electric Porsche is not a 911. It’s not even a Panamera.I like it. It shouldn’t have been named a Mustang though.elon muskrat might be pissedI’m pretty sure he is not. His vision is to replace inefficient fuel-burners with cleaner BEV’s and that’s exactly what’s happening. Some people can see the greater good…Mustang name fail aside, I’ll admit I kinda like it. I don’t see the word mustang anywhere so I’ll just call it the Mach-e. Might be my next car.. or the Bronco— most probably the Bronco.Me too. The 4dr Bronco in 2022 is the one I’m waiting on. But if I could have a second car, it would be this.I take back my earlier bashing of this car, and eat my own advice of not judging a car based on grainy leaks or press release photos.It looks good, and it’ll probably handle better than the Tesla too.GM are being made to look like fools with every new product Ford introduces.
Nonsense. GM are more than capable of doing that on their own.Funny how nobody mentions that after Tesla paved the road for the EV revolution and they are constantly being the one manufacturer to compare new EV’s with, now even their designs are being copied. This Ford is a plain obvious copy of the Model Y, inside and outside. Ignore the details and these are the same cars. Except that this won’t have a supercharger network.“Funny how …..”
hilarious.
;
https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/e969c79b0b3db6f777595eb3da61bb205855ea49dd4ce9af9be58787a3c99cf2.jpgHenry Ford didn’t provide a gas station network across countries when he launched the Model T. Why should electric cars be different? Also, Nissan beat Tesla to market with an affordable electric vehicle by many years, except the Japanese brand doesn’t need any crazed fanboys or cultists to sell cars.Maybe they do need them considering Nissan is in the toilet these daysI’d rathr be turning a profit like Nissan has over the last ten years, unlike Tesla.“Nissan beat Tesla to market” with a mediocre electric vehicle that wasn’t noteworthy at either range or performance – things that Tesla excels at (I’m not really a fan of either company).What Americans (including the people that work for car manufacturers) don’t understand is that the car market outside North America is very different. The average engine size across the 28 countries in the EU is 1.6L. These engines produce around 105-150bhp, people don’t need overhype mode or whatever Tesla calls it. Meanwhile, if you take an advanced EU nation like the UK, the average driver covers 7,200 miles per year, while the average commuting distance is an 10 miles.However, when EVs are produced cheaply enough (yes, even cheaper than a Leaf) people may start to get interested here.Generally I agree, I would also prefer a lower range but cheap alternative, but then again if the Model 3 is only 5-10k more plus a lot more range then it’s hard to justify a Leaf or anything else on the market. No wonder the Model 3 is the most sold car both in Norway and the Netherlands in all categories (including petrol and diesel cars).Tax is so outrageously high in both Norway and the Netherlands that the governments are able to offer massive taxpayer-funded subsidies to make EVs cheaper. I do not see why any sane person would throw money at their government so their willy-waving EV-loving neighbour can get $5k to $10k off the price of a new Tesla.Maybe because if they don’t then the pollution-related healthcare costs are going to be way more costly than an EV subsidy? Please buy a diesel vacuum cleaner.The average engine size in Europe is 1.6L. We don’t see pollution-related problems like Los Angeles, Bangalore or Shanghai.It’s a tax incentive not a cash rebate.Maybe because the Model T didn’t have a competitor that already had its very own network of gas stations? I thought this would be obvious. I’m not a fanboy, I’m being realistic, unlike most commenters here.It would be realistic to see charging points increase in number as EV ownership grows, just as what happened in the 1900s with petrol-powered cars.Ford designed the Mach-E before the Model Y was shown to the public. The similarities are a coincidence.The Mach-E will have access to the Electrify America network. They’ll do just fine.The Future of HilarityI think this should be called Ford e-tron.
Why didn’t GM apply Mustang’s design?Say what?Other than a tiny resemblance to the Mustang in the front and Mustang-inspired taillights, I am dumbfounded why this thing is called a Mustang. I hope Mustang afficianados revolt in massive droves.I love mustangs, I didn’t mind it.And, what’s worse, it looks like Ford took a look at sketches of the supposedly-upcoming Tesla Model Y and said “let’s beat Elon to the punch”. Have at it, Elon! If this thing gets the lukewarm reaction, evidenced by the MANY posts in here, by the general public, Hackett is toast. Good riddance. Did anyone else see the article on another site earlier this week about pissed-off Focus and Cruze customers (in droves) trading in for Civics and Corollas? And not EVs. I was ROFL.Great. Better than subsidizing customers with truck sales. If your choice is subsidizing car sales just to meet CAFE or using that money to invest in the next gen tech, the smart move is investing in next gen tech, which they are.Not being a Mustang enthusiast, of course you wouldn’t get it.It seems manufactures don’t care about that. They want cars for the new generation to get new enthusiasts.What does that even mean? You are offended because Ford gave a Mustang name to another car besides your original Mustang? It is childish to me…
Are you telling me that people shouldn’t buy their expensive Mercedes S classes because Mercedes puts the same logo on trucks?
Like I said,get over it ..it’s just a name…Mercedes doesn’t have any vehicle as iconic as the mustang.
No company does. No one ever said hard core car enthusiast were always
completely rational, but 1000/1 of those that hate this more than love it,
means bad news for Ford.What?! “Mercedes doesn’t have any vehicle as iconic as the mustang.
No company does”?!?! What?
Are you serious?I’ve loved Mustangs since I was a kid. Ford using the name on this doesn’t bother me. It doesn’t take away anything from the Mustang name, those cars will still exists as they always have been.So you are 1 in thousand, the other 999 absolutely hate it.More than likely.That’s all it take for you guys. Maybe Ford should change the name of the automatic transmission in the Focus/Fiesta to “The Mustang Transmission”. That should solve everything.Looks a lot better in these photos.It’s been dubbed as ‘Mustang inspired’, which is a key word. For one it’s an SUV so it’s obviously not going to look exactly the same, as all the features they’re taking inspiration from need to be tweaked to suit a completely different layout. Really there’s a lot more Mustang in it than ‘just the tail lights’.
Look at the big rear 1/4 panels, which take on a similar shape to the coupe, the window line, the coupe like shape, the long swooping hood. It still needs to be different enough so it’s it’s own thing and also needs to evolve on the existing design language as well as introduce the electric design language. Pretty good job I reckon.https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/6a70fbe2a481905bfd69447e9b3ddd44564d4b017c8e4ebaa84e81d8c1ebf904.jpgShould of been a 4-door sedan for better handling.Mustang is 2 door or nothing……..This looks more like an Escape than a Mustang.
#NotMyMustangIt looks nothing like an Escape. Whether is named mustang or not this will sell.That ain’t Idris ElbaRenderings were looking so good and somehow Ford always manages to make the final product look Walmart-grade.I like it.Join the Navy.Perfect!If sale more than Teslas is a winner!this is gonna sell like hot cakes.It’s an EV, and not a Tesla with a a huge international supercharger network… so NO. But might sell well for an EV.This is called BADGE ENGINEERING.Peugeot Sport’s new 208 Rally 4 will make its racing debut this weekend.The M52 VW Golf GTI Stage 1 power upgrade will cost you around $926.Toyota brought a wide range of 2020 GR Supra concepts to the 2019 SEMA Show.Duke Dynamics’ Lamborghini Aventador widebody kit can be made of fiberglass, carbon fiber, or both.Along with de Meo, Toyota exec Didier Leroy is also being considered by the French automaker.The M8 Gran Coupe makes up for well over 40 percent of BMW’s M8 daily production.The facelifted Audi Q5 is expected to premiere in the first quarter of 2020 with visual and technical updates.Ford is going to build the new electric Mustang Mach-E in Mexico.The BMW 7-Series is going to get an all-electric version, as our first batch of spy shots reveals.Sure, this 156 GTA looks pristine and has only 9k miles, but at $46,000, it definitely ain’t cheap.