With Ford prepping to unveil their fully-electric Mustang Mach-E crossover this Sunday, November 17 at 9:30pm, official images of the EV were leaked online through the automaker’s U.S. customer website.
Naturally, screenshots were quickly taken, leading to us learning way more than we expected we could about the Mach-E, days ahead of its premiere. To make matters worse for Ford, the images were leaked along with specs, to everyone else’s delight.However, once we began looking over those specs, we quickly realized that Ford is probably not even sweating this minor breach in security, seen as how on paper, the Mach-E seems to be able to hold its own against its main rival, the Tesla Model Y – and therefor has nothing to be ashamed of.Related: Bob Lutz Tears Into The Tesla Model Y, Calls It “Terminally Ugly”Since we already went through the numbers, we’re just going to straight up show you how the two electric crossovers compare in terms of pricing, range, performance and cargo space.The base modelsStarting with the entry-level versions, we have the Ford Mustang Mach-E Select and the base Model Y costing roughly the same (probably) and offering identical ranges. Performance is as you can see slightly better in the Ford, whereas the Tesla has a slight practicality advantage – true regardless of spec.Opting for more battery juiceOpting for a bigger battery pack will then land you either the Mach-E Premium or the Long Range Model Y, the latter costing less by $2,600. Again the range is identical, and apparently so is performance in this case. Unlike Tesla though, Ford apparently wants to offer dual-motor AWD options for all Mach-E variants.The halo versionsAs for their flagship versions, the Mach-E GT undercuts the Model Y Performance by $500, yet its EPA-estimated 235 mile range isn’t as good as what Tesla is advertising for the Model Y. But again, straight line acceleration is identical, which is impressive as far as the Ford is concerned.The Ford Mach-E looks ready to take the fight to Tesla, in pretty much the same way that Porsche is challenging the Model S with the Taycan. However, unlike Porsche, Ford hasn’t slapped a premium price tag on their Mustang-inspired EV crossover, which means that mainstream customers are about to have a really tough choice on their hands. The Mach-e looks more aggressive than the Y. The Y looks more effeminate.Y looks half baked by someone lazy and doesn’t know how to design a car.Whoever signed off the design for the Tesla was smoking too much weed. It’s just a plain lazy design. The same can’t be said for the muscular, almost Urus-like, rear-end on the Ford.Smoke too much weed you say.. Elon .. “hold my joint.“I think they both look too sterile from outside and also inside. Maybe it’s actually desired by target customers, but I would like something more futuristic and aggressive, retro-futuristic might be even better. These are just smoothened-out standard boring SUVs. Since electric powertrain removes many styling necessities compared to ICE cars, I would expect something better than just bland design with covered radiator opening and missing exhaust pipes… And the interiors scream “BOOORING! (proudly designed by IKEA)”. Am I too old fashioned?Not exactly – just unable to appreciate the concept of tasteful restraint.You’re now talking about that tastefully restraint Ford Mustang crossover or the other gender-less symbol of cars for bland people?I think the Ford is a lot nicer looking, but I wish it didn’t have a Mustang logo on it. I don’t care if it’s “Mustang-inspired.” It looks tacky.I agree, and it’s not to surprising that a $.59 sticker slapped onto the front of the car looks tacky.At least Ford put some emphasis on design and it atleast has decent interior with a gauge cluster but holy hell a massive screen even bigger than the tesla?! Whats next 27 inch screens?its the same size, just vertical. more inline with phone users. so, better design.Tablet/Screen should be detachable.cool idea. but why?So nobody steals it?And swivelThey should make the steering wheel a tablet.Lol talk about distractions.They both look like Jellybeans and now I want some.Fords got something good here. I like it, and looking forward to seeing one in person.The Mach E definitely looks better, and should be better built as well.Nearly every electric car that isn’t a Tesla looks better. Tesla produces plain minimalistic cars that appeal only to cultists.While I’m not a fan of their SUVs, I think the Tesla Models S and 3 look great.If you enjoy plain design like what Audi churns out, then it’s likely that a Tesla appeals too. I’ll even happily let Ford and Tesla willy-wave at one another over who’s design is better. However, for me, it was the I-Pace that achieved the goal of looking half decent. It even won World Car Design of the Year. If Tesla ever get nominated, or maybe even win, I’ll start to think they’ve taken car design seriously.A Toyota Camry is plain. A Tesla is clean.I do like the i-Pace myself.Model S is dated.Remove the mustang logo, headlights, and taillights, tell everyone it’s from a Chinese company, and we’d all laugh at them for their failed attempt to copy Tesla.
Is it wrong of me to expect more from a company as big as Ford?I have a feeling no matter what Ford unveiled, you’d bitch about it.Ford would have finalized the design for this car before anyone in the industry saw the Model Y. So it’s not really a copy, just a coincidence.Ford look like they’ve put some effort into the design, which is more than can be said for Tesla or Chinese companies that copy Western automakers.I agree. They should try something else than a bland crossover with Mustang inspired lights. Strangely, not that many people see it. I suspect it’s purely because it’s electric. Common people LOVE electric cars regardless of everything else. So even this kind of disappointing “Mustang” is welcomed by the masses.So I hope there is no “mustang” writing anywhere in the car. Fine.. slap the horse on it, but if there’s no mention of mustang anywhere we will just call it a Mach-e. Patiently waiting for the Mustang GT-E to compete with the Tesla Roadster.. I know for sure it’ll look better.Looks like Ford is serious. I like the design. Piggybacking on the Mustang brand equity is a smart thing I guess. Even though, to me, the mustang isn’t appealing and the association seems a little cheesy and forced. But if this tactic makes EV’s more appealing to the “‘Murica…Fu*k Yeah” crowd, then I’m all for it.Tesla no doubt.. R.I.P Ford… Ford makes ugly cars in a ugly factory and the CEO is thickheaded…Ford would totally be better off building their cars in tents.This will likely outsell the incredibly awkward looking Tesla Model Y. The Ford has a muscular and sporty look about it. Not so the Tesla.They use Mustang name to attract specific demographics.Overall, I will hold off on judgement until the 17th, but leaning Ford on looks.Now I see how it is. You’re all willing to accept anything if it’s electric. Hypocrisy at it’s best. I hope ford will make a “mustang” crossover with turbo three-cylinder soon. Just because this electric sterile box was accepted so well by pretentious sheep who don’t actually know or care about cars…Snore…..“Mustang” you say? Calling an electric grocery getter a mustang totally makes me throw my life long passion for driving and working on cars right in the trash!! I totally buy into your marketing angle!! I’m an unthinking dumb mammal and your marketing team just used the ‘Force’ on me!! Great job Ford…we the masses are all falling for it!! Well done!!https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/170ee9b8e31205e7268caa00243ad91b45c9dec6f67c7a62c620f9618b020f7f.gifSomehow the Mach-E seems to look less like a suppository, so it wins the beauty contest with ease. The tax incentive makes the price comparison irrelevant for now. Unless this thing really takes off, it’ll be a while before the Mach-E no longer qualifies. I won’t deny that it will help them sell cars, but I still don’t agree with the branding strategy. Not only do I not think it should be a Mustang, I think it should be wearing a Lincoln badge, have a nicer interior, and wear a higher price tag. Ford’s version should be a conventional 2-box design and wear the Blue Oval badge.That’s an interesting thought, bringing it out as a Lincoln, especially when Lincoln has the wind to its back. It would also justify higher pricing adding the “extras” to make it a particular pleasant vehicle.It would be interesting to hear management’s thoughts regarding your (I think) excellent idea.Ford could have done better. Their first BEV and it looks like an ICE retrofit, with the added fake front grille cover and awkward rear end tailpipe delete package. it’s just too awkward, too many design elements competing with each other, and trying too hard for attention. Adding old Mustang elements to a BEV just makes it look old. Ford needed a new name, and new design identity for the BEV, but they can’t help themselves with living in the past in every vehicle they make to justify their existence. The Mustang Mach E looks like it was made to be an ICE car as well. The Tesla looks so much newer, like the future. BTW…the Model Y Standard Range price is $40k. All models went up $1k after announcement when Autopilot became standard equipment. It was a $3k option. Along with Autopilot, it comes with 9 cameras, Sentry mode, Dog mode, FSD hardware so the car is future proof, and Y will launch with the new 1 million mile life battery pack. Then there is the fact that there has been several feature updates along with 3 range and power updates to the 3, that never got updated on the Y page….so the stats there are deceptively low. I think Tesla knows what they are doing, and will raise the bar once again at launch, when the competition thought they were getting close. FYI…3 just got an update OTA and now it can do 0-60 in less than 3 seconds. Two year old cars get the same upgrade…for free. This is why buying anything but a Tesla is like buying a horse (Mustang?)…lol.Even from the beginning, Ford stylists had envisioned a 4-door Mustang. 55 years or so later, they finally made one. As for its looks, imagine Mustang didn’t exist, and judge the Mach-E for what it is. It’s pretty good-looking, if I do say so myself.When choosing the top four criteria to compare these two vehicles, how in the heck did cargo space beat out the other options?When are cars going to come with giant 60 inch infotainment screens? LOL.Is it just me, or Tesla Model Y looks like a toy car from a cartoon for 6YO children?
I am not a fan of Mustang Mach-e crossover, but it looks much better than Y IMO.Its a LOT better than I was expecting. I hope it wipes the floor with the Model YSo you are comparing the Mach-E to a version of the Model Y that doesn’t even exist or that is proposed as orderable and calling it better? Talk about fake news and shady journalism. I wouldn’t be surprised if the LR Y will come down on price to pretty much match the Mach E, while trumping it in every category.The Ford looks better, but the giant cheap touchscreen is a total deal breaker.Peugeot Sport’s new 208 Rally 4 will make its racing debut this weekend.The M52 VW Golf GTI Stage 1 power upgrade will cost you around $926.Toyota brought a wide range of 2020 GR Supra concepts to the 2019 SEMA Show.Duke Dynamics’ Lamborghini Aventador widebody kit can be made of fiberglass, carbon fiber, or both.Along with de Meo, Toyota exec Didier Leroy is also being considered by the French automaker.The M8 Gran Coupe makes up for well over 40 percent of BMW’s M8 daily production.The facelifted Audi Q5 is expected to premiere in the first quarter of 2020 with visual and technical updates.Ford is going to build the new electric Mustang Mach-E in Mexico.The BMW 7-Series is going to get an all-electric version, as our first batch of spy shots reveals.Sure, this 156 GTA looks pristine and has only 9k miles, but at $46,000, it definitely ain’t cheap.