What would be awesome is to have the same functionality we have in websites, exist in the real world. Imagine, fully personalized experiences, limitless access to knowledge, entertainment where ever you go, automatic upgrades that create new functionalities, all in real-world physical environments. We typically think of objects in the physical world as having a set functionality. A website or an app can upgrade overnight, but the washing machine will not become a dryer following a new version release. The cooking stove in the kitchen will not ask us how well we can cook and offer guidance on how to make the perfect dinner.  Websites capture multiple data points descriptive of visitor's behavior. The website operator knows which items captured our interest, which links we clicked, where we paused to think. Improvements to engagement, retention, and buying decisions are made based on this data. Imagine if we could do the same in the physical world.  If we could create web-like hyper-personalized experiences in physical environments, we could create a tremendous amount of value for businesses, and better experiences for end users.Now with IoT, Edge Computing and AI, objects, as well as environments are becoming more Web-like. Upgrades are made possible to the extent that your car will gain new functionalities from one day to the next and entire environments can be more agile, to match the changing conditions or behaviors within them.How many times have you waited at the red light, frustrated, because you were the only vehicle as far as the eye could see? There are many such instances in which we need to wait for a predetermined cycle to complete. We have become accustomed to accepting such annoyances in real life, but have long forgotten similar experiences such as generic websites or pages that take time to load online. Now things are starting to catch up in real life. Traffic lights, for example, are now beginning to be smarter using computer vision. By understanding the conditions in a junction, the lights can better manage traffic as well as respond to the emergency conditions: When we go to the gym, the machines we use are indifferent to who we are. The weight lifting machine can't differentiate you from the next health and fitness aficionado. Moreover, as you exercise, the training machine will not follow a plan and adjust itself based on your progress. These stagnant conditions are now changing.  There are presently fitness machines that use RFID or NFC tags to identify individuals. Once the match is complete, the training machine will adjust to match individuals' physical capabilities.  As the gym gets busy, the fitness machines will regulate the training cycles to keep people moving to the next fitness machine to make sure there is no waiting time. These capabilities confirm that environments can be made responsive to individuals needs, and agile based on changing conditions: We got used to apps on mobile phones and entire operating systems that update and improve over time. But the coffee maker on your kitchen counter, or the machine you run in a factory, don't share these capabilities. Products in the physical world have set functionality, which does not improve or upgrade over time. It would be surprising if tomorrow morning, your coffee maker will be able to make pancakes. However, by harnessing the power of IoT, Edge Computing, and Cloud capabilities, these limitations no longer hold. Take as an example the latest software upgrade by Tesla: included are a new ability to summon your car, enjoy karaoke while driving, and randomly generate drives to a restaurant you've never considered visiting before. None of these functionalities existed when the vehicle was purchased. When built in the right way, machines can be as upgradable as your favorite app: From an innovator perspective, comparing the Web and Physical world is a beneficial exercise. At any moment, we can look at the list of differences, and ask ourselves, "actually, why not?" Why can't the physical world act as a website? Why can't the physical environment understand our actions and intents, be agile and responsive, as well as upgradable? Web style hyper-personalization has generated a tremendous amount of value for businesses and helped improve user experiences. It is time to deploy similar functionalites and gain the same benefits in the physical world. I am a serial entrepreneur with expertise driving innovation in both the startup and corporate worlds with an emphasis on IoT. Over the last 20 years, I’ve founded and 