Bolivia is in the
midst of a brutal upheaval. Following weeks of protests, armed forces have compelled
longtime, left-leaning President Evo Morales to step down after reports of “manipulations” in last October’s vote and Morales’s subsequent call for new elections. Morales has sought asylum in
Mexico, as right-wing and in some cases neo-fascist elements round up members
of his party and burn the wiphala, the flag of the Aymara and Quechuan
peoples. Amidst all this,
some on the left began to speculate on a disturbing subplot. Days before
resigning, Morales had pulled out of a lithium mining deal with the German
company ACI Systems Alemania, or ACISA. Lithium is an essential
ingredient of the batteries that power electric vehicles, smart phones,
e-bikes, solar panels and more. ACISA is a supplier for Tesla, stock of which
rose sharply after news of Morales’s
ouster broke. Not unreasonably—given the history of the region—some
journalists and politicians began
asking: Had this all just been yet another plot by Western Powers to seize a
valuable commodity for multinational corporations?The short answer is no. There are several factors
that have contributed to recent protests:
Morales’s opposition never planned to accept the results of these most
recent elections and anger at the president had been brewing from across the
political spectrum, with the far-right now playing the most decisive role.
While it’s certainly possible that the CIA yet again
involved itself in Latin American politics—we may not find out
definitively for years—multinationals’ desire to capture Bolivia’s
lithium market likely was not what got Morales booted out of office. Still, those same companies may well
profit off of the new right-wing government. And as world leaders look to
transition rapidly off of fossil fuels, the politics surrounding the minerals
integral to a decarbonized world will only intensify. Properly designed, a
Green New Deal could transform the fraught dynamics that govern lithium and other
valuable commodities while heading off climate catastrophe. If business as
usual continues, neither seems likely.Over half of the
world’s lithium reserves are
held in South America in the Andes’ otherworldly, high-altitude salt flats
formed from lakes of lithium-rich brine. Mining companies remove that and transport it to massive
evaporation ponds to sit in the sun for months or even years. As the water
evaporates it leaves behind magnesium, calcium, sodium, potassium
and—the main prize—lithium, a white powder sometimes called “white
gold.” While this predominant type of lithium extraction requires big
up-front investments of capital and expertise, the whole process is less labor
intensive than digging up coal or oil. Yet it requires massive amounts of water
in some of the driest places on earth, with single companies using as much as
1,700 litres per second. This drain has disrupted ecosystems around the lakes
and cut off freshwater access for indigenous communities in the so-called lithium
triangle countries of
Bolivia, Argentina, and Chile. Indigenous communities and others around the salt
flats have led hunger strikes and blockades to protest not only these issues,
but a transfer of wealth out of their own backyards to foreign corporations.When he was first
elected in 2006, Morales led a charge against such extractive dynamics,
canceling contracts that inordinately benefited foreign capital, redistributing
land, nationalizing the natural gas industry and seizing mines. All this
sparked intense backlash from foreign companies, which forced several concessions
and as much as $1.9 billion out of Morales’s administration through lawsuits.
Intending to both raise capital for lithium development and prevent unequal
extraction, Morales then proposed a 70-year contract with ACISA in which
state-owned firms would retain a controlling stake in new projects on Salar de
Uyuni, an area 13.5 times the size of New York City. Instead of simply taking
lithium out of the Andes to build products elsewhere—the industry norm—this contract also proposed that Bolivian workers build an electric
vehicle battery facility in Bolivia. Companies seeking easier returns had
already looked elsewhere, where governments and workers demanded less of a cut.
Still, those living near the salt flats weren’t satisfied. The Potosí
Civic Committee—which fought Morales over the deal—demanded an increase in
royalties from 3 to 11 percent, and more local control over the mining. When
Morales pulled out of the agreement with ACISA earlier this month, prior to
being ousted, these demands were cited as a major factor.With the country in
disarray, the future of lithium in Bolivia remains uncertain. South American
lithium extraction for now is concentrated in Chile and Argentina. Workers and
indigenous communities have protested destructive mining practices in those
places too, but with far less sympathetic national governments, who are more
eager to please multinational corporations.Meanwhile, demand
for lithium is set to explode. Building a green energy grid, expanding
renewables and electrifying everything from cars to cooktops requires more
lithium and other so-called technology metals that are central to clean energy.
The Institute for Sustainable Futures, for instance, projects that a world
run fully on renewables by 2050 would demand 280 percent of the planet’s lithium reserves—those which are economically viable to extract—and 85 percent of the planet’s total lithium resources.It seems like an
impossible bind: Even if the global economy manages to transition off of fossil
fuels it will simply sub out one kind of harmful extraction for another. The
future of technology metal mining in South America and elsewhere could look
eerily similar to centuries of colonial exploitation, dressed up as
environmentalism: American highways could buzz with Teslas traveling between
sprawling suburban rooftops and office parks decked out in solar panels, all
premised on capitalist profiteering and disregard for indigenous rights.
Moreover, given Chinese firms’ domination of the lithium industry, we
could see geopolitical conflicts akin to previous ones over oil.It’s the kind of future suggested by Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer’s recent proposal to invest $454 billion over a decade to build out
electric car manufacturing and charging stations, incentivizing consumers to
swap out today’s combustion-powered clunkers for the
EVs of tomorrow.
“My plan,”
he wrote in a recent New York Times op-ed, “is estimated to create
tens of thousands of new, good-paying jobs in this country and should
re-establish the United States as the world leader in auto manufacturing.”   Schumer’s proposal, which is supported from labor and environmental
groups, embodies the kind of cheery techno-optimism that has dominated
climate policymaking in wealthy countries like the U.S. for decades: We have
the money and technology to mostly maintain business as usual by simply
replacing the energy source that powers it, with a few complementary tweaks
along the way. Green manufacturing jobs offer the added bonus of returning
America to its postwar industrial heyday.
The supply chains and extraction that make them possible are kept out of site.The Green New Deal, by contrast, could offer an alternative—one more in line with the “rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented
changes in all aspects of society”
that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has suggested. There
is no path to a stable world that keeps car-centric sprawl intact.
Transitioning off of fossil fuels can indeed create tens of thousands of
well-paid union jobs in the U.S., and likely millions more given the scale of
work required; some of them will be in consumer EV manufacturing. Beyond the
immediate short-term, though, decarbonization will require transforming
suburbs, cities and rural areas through massive investments in public transit
and affordable housing,
per a recent bill
introduced by Sen. Bernie Sanders and Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. This will
make them not just greener but cheaper and more livable, and keep developed and
wealthy countries from placing an unsustainable burden on Bolivia and other
mineral producers.Yet one of the greatest promises of a Green New Deal is the role
the United States could play in reimagining a global order that for centuries
has relied on an exploitative transfer of wealth from the resource-rich but
less-developed South to the wealthy North. It’s
hard to predict the full scope of what the U.S. could do if it earnestly worked
to remake the global economy along more egalitarian lines—for
example, seeking collaboration with China
and other countries rather than destructive trade wars—in order to meet the
climate challenge head-on. Instead of meeting new demand for technology metals
wholly through new extraction, U.S. policy could work to harvest them from the
electronic waste or the byproducts of other types of mining, where these
substances are abundant. The sheer purchasing power of a U.S. government
committed to making its transportation system run on renewables could set a
global standard for labor, indigenous and environmental rights in minerals
extraction, ensuring the benefits of a green transition flow up and down the
supply chain. It could rewrite trade agreements in ways that prioritize
democratic governance over multinational corporations.Whether recognized or not, the United States’ climate policy is
also its foreign policy. Either it can keep setting the world on fire,
or do everything in its power to put it out.Kate Aronoff is a fellow at the Type Media Center covering climate and American politics.Copyright 2019 © The New Republic. All rights reserved.