Members of the Trump Administration — which has called for the privatization of everything from the country's infrastructure, to the Veterans Administration, and even the US Postal Service — are reportedly considering a proposal that would welcome in food trucks, Wi-Fi, and Amazon deliveries to America's protected national parks.The proposals, first reported by the Los Angeles Times, are intended to make the financially costly parks system more "accessible" to a new generation of smartphone-wielding visitors. But the ideas have elicited a backlash from conservation advocates who are weary of opening protected lands to profit-seeking corporations. The proposals came by way of a letter sent last month to Trump's Secretary of the Interior, David L. Bernhardt, by the "Made in America" Outdoor Recreation Advisory Committee, which advises Bernhardt "on public-private partnerships across all public lands" with the goal of improving public infrastructure.The advisers suggested thinking of campers and visitors as more like "consumers" who should be provided "commercial services" at national parks.And national parks, according to the committee, aren't meeting consumer demand. It is also underfunded. According to data released by PewTrust, the US National Park Service currently needs over $12 billion in repairs."Overall capacity has not kept up with growth and changes in camping demand, and the infrastructure that does exist, with few exceptions, fails to meet expectations of the contemporary camping market," the letter reads.








        Food trucks in Miami, Florida.
      
Olga V Kulakova/Shutterstock

To improve this experience, the committee recommended a set of ideas meant to "modernize and expand campgrounds for this and future generations of outdoor recreationists."Those ideas include adding Wi-Fi to campgrounds, setting up camp stores, and providing equipment rentals. All of this, the committee argues, could help increase the number of campers who show up. The letter also suggests bringing in Coachella and ACL-style festival food trucks, rentable tents and cabins, and encourages a "blackout" of senior citizen discount prices during peak visiting hours. If enacted, these initiatives would potentially transform the national park camping experience away from an unplugged escape to nature and into a playground of industry and advertisement, conservation advocates warn. The privatization efforts caught the eyes of several prominent politicians, including Montana governor and Democratic presidential candidate Steve Bullock. "National parks are not amusement parks, no matter what Donald Trump thinks," Bullock wrote on Twitter. "We save our national parks investing in infrastructure and expanding access, not by unleashing Amazon drones and barring seniors at the gates." Shortly after reporting on the Trump administration's considerations of the policy, the Los Angeles Times' editorial board published it's own critical editorial with a title leaving little to interpretation: "Food trucks and Amazon deliveries in national parks are a horrific idea."One of the new proposals under consideration would restrict the use of senior discounts at parks in a greater push to focus on young visitors This, and similar measures prioritizing young people over older visitors, drew criticism from senior advocates like Bill Sweeney, the senior vice president of the AARP. "This proposal is an insulting attempt to push older Americans out of our national parks," Sweeney said in an interview with the Los Angeles Times. "The cost of a senior pass already jumped in recent years from $10 to $80, and this proposal would further hurt older Americans who want to visit national parks. Enough is enough."








        Grand Prismatic Spring in Yellowstone.
      
Lorcel/Shutterstock

The committee, in its letter, argues that all of these suggested efforts are necessary to keep the national parks financially sustainable. Without constant connectivity and millennial-focused food trucks, the letter argues, the smart-phone generation might abandon the idea of camping altogether. "Should the American public, through lack of enjoyment or shifts in demographics, grow to regard national parks and other public lands and waters as irrelevant or unimportant, Federal agencies risk losing legislative support to maintain public lands for the benefit of all Americans," the letter reads. Recent studies show a recent boom in the popularity of camping, especially amongst young people. In 2017, according to the 2018 North American Camping Report, Millennials alone made up 40% of all campers. In making its argument for the new modernization efforts, the "Made in America" Committee pointed to the Interior department's recent insertion of e-bikes — traditional-looking bicycles with small electric motors attached to them — into the parks as guidance. That idea, enacted through Secretary of the Interior Order 3376, allows e-bikes on national park grounds wherever normal bikes are permitted.That enactment, while a far cry from the kind of aesthetic overall currently being suggested, faced its own pushback from conservation advocates. Dozens of groups opposed the e-bike orders, claiming the motorized bikes could damage park trails.








        Rocky Mountain National Park.
      
Joey Hadden/Business Insider

If the Trump administration does move forward with the proposals, it will be the latest step in a long and consistent series of policies that have allowed private corporations to expand their operations into national parks.Two years ago, Trump signed two presidential proclamations that removed the federal protections on more than 2 million acres of land in Utah. This, along with a slew of other rollbacks, were compiled in a report published in the journal Science this May.The White House did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment.  Mudslides leave hundreds of tourists stranded in an Alaskan national parkNational parks dealing with vandals, human waste in shutdown Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
