Priyanka Chopra Jonas and Nick Jonas marked their first anniversary by posting touching photos and videos from their wedding ceremonies. "My promise. Then..today.. forever. You bring me joy, grace, balance, excitement, passion.. all in the same moment...thank you for finding me..Happy First wedding anniversary Husband.. @nickjonasAnd Thank you to everyone for the love and good wishes. We feel blessed," Chopra Jonas captioned a post on Instagram on Sunday. The actress shared a video showing the couple holding hands at the Christian ceremony (which was held for Jonas' faith) and at the Hindu ceremony (which honored Chopra Jonas' background). She also shared two additional photos of her and the Jonas Brothers member during the ceremonies. A post shared by  Priyanka Chopra Jonas (@priyankachopra) on Dec 1, 2019 at 1:38pm PSTDec 1, 2019 at 1:38pm PST
 For the Western ceremony, Chopra Jonas wore a custom-made Ralph Lauren gown that included a high-neck, floral and scroll motifs, and a 75-foot-long veil. Meanwhile, Jonas' suit included a subtle nod to Chopra Jonas, as reported by People.During the Hindu wedding the following day, the "Quantico" star wore a custom-made red dress by Indian designer Sabyasachi, which took 110 embroiderers a total of 3,720 hours to make. Jonas shared another stunning image from the Western ceremony, which showed the bride, groom, bridesmaids, and groomsmen. "One year ago today we said forever... well forever isn't nearly long enough. I love you with all of my heart @priyankachopra happy anniversary," he wrote. 
One year ago today we said forever... well forever isn’t nearly long enough. I love you with all of my heart @priyankachopra happy anniversary.A post shared by  Nick Jonas (@nickjonas) on Dec 1, 2019 at 11:23am PSTDec 1, 2019 at 11:23am PST
Recently, Chopra Jonas celebrated their anniversary early by surprising her husband with a new dog, who they named Gino. The "Isn't It Romantic" star took a video that showed her waking up Jonas with a German Shepherd puppy."Pri came home with the absolute best surprise this morning. Please meet our new pup @ginothegerman I haven't stopped smiling since I woke up this morning and finally realized what was going on. Thank you @priyankachopra," he wrote on Instagram. A post shared by  Nick Jonas (@nickjonas) on Nov 26, 2019 at 1:55pm PSTNov 26, 2019 at 1:55pm PST
Speaking to Insider in September, Jonas said that his wedding anniversary would likely be low-key compared to their 2018 nuptials, which included pre-wedding parties and several receptions to accommodate their friends and family in India and the US. "I have a few ideas of what I'd like to do and ways to make it special," Jonas told us. "But I think the wedding itself was quite the blowout, so we will probably be a bit more chill this time and see how it goes."Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
