The subject who is truly loyal to the Chief Magistrate will neither advise nor submit to arbitrary measures.Find your bookmarks by selecting your profile name.Getting audio file...Audio for this article is not available at this time.This translation has been automatically generated and has not been verified for accuracy. Full DisclaimerSpeaker of the House Nancy Pelosi holds her weekly news conference in the House Visitors Center, at the U.S. Capitol, in Washington, D.C., on Nov. 14, 2019.Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesHouse of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday President Donald Trump already has admitted to bribery in the Ukraine scandal at the heart of a Democratic-led inquiry, accusing him of an impeachable offence under the U.S. Constitution.“The bribe is to grant or withhold military assistance in return for a public statement of a fake investigation into the elections. That’s bribery,” Ms. Pelosi, the top Democrat in Congress, told a news conference the day after the first public hearing in the impeachment inquiry she announced in September.“What the President has admitted to and says it’s ‘perfect,’ I say it’s perfectly wrong. It’s bribery,” Ms. Pelosi said.Story continues below advertisementDemocrats are looking into whether the Republican President abused his power by withholding US$391-million in U.S. security aid to Ukraine as leverage to pressure Kyiv to conduct two investigations that would benefit him politically. The money, approved by Congress to help a U.S. ally combat Russia-backed separatists in the eastern part of the country, was later provided to Ukraine.Mr. Trump has denied any wrongdoing.Another central figure – former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch – is due to testify on Friday in the second public hearing in the inquiry.The inquiry threatens Mr. Trump’s presidency even as he seeks re-election in November, 2020. If the House approves articles of impeachment – formal charges – against Mr. Trump, the Senate would then hold a trial on whether to convict him and remove him from office. Republicans control the Senate and have shown little support for Mr. Trump’s removal.Ms. Pelosi’s comments could offer a preview of articles of impeachment Democrats might put forward. At her news conference, she also said Mr. Trump’s administration had committed “obstruction of Congress” by blocking testimony of officials summoned to testify in the inquiry.The Constitution states that impeachable offences include “treason, bribery or other high crimes and misdemeanours.” Democrats have begun to use the words bribery or attempted bribery in discussing Mr. Trump’s actions. According to precedent, obstruction could be another article of impeachment.Republicans have said House Democrats already have decided to pass articles of impeachment, but Ms. Pelosi denied that was the case, saying the inquiry must play out before any decision can be made.Story continues below advertisementThe focus of the inquiry is a July 25 phone call in which Mr. Trump asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate Democratic rival Joe Biden and the former vice-president’s son Hunter, who had served as a board member for a Ukrainian energy company called Burisma. Mr. Trump also asked Mr. Zelensky to investigate a debunked conspiracy theory embraced by some Trump allies that Ukraine, not Russia, interfered in the 2016 U.S. election.Ms. Pelosi compared Mr. Trump’s actions to former president Richard Nixon’s conduct in the Watergate corruption scandal that led him in 1974 to become the only U.S. president to resign. Ms. Pelosi said Mr. Trump’s actions to enlist a foreign power to help him in a U.S. election and the obstruction of information about that – she called it a cover-up – “makes what Nixon did look almost small.”Republicans kept up their attacks on Adam Schiff, the Democratic chairman of the House intelligence committee, which is holding the public hearings. House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy accused Mr. Schiff of lying at Wednesday’s hearing about not knowing the identity of the whistle-blower within the U.S. intelligence community whose complaint about Mr. Trump’s call triggered the impeachment inquiry.An estimated 13.8 million viewers across 10 broadcast and cable television networks watched the first day of proceedings, according to Nielsen ratings data.Two career U.S. diplomats, William Taylor and George Kent, testified on Wednesday. Mr. Taylor, the acting ambassador to Ukraine, offered an account that linked Mr. Trump more directly to the pressure campaign on Ukraine.The intelligence committee is due to hear on Friday from Ms. Yovanovitch, whom Mr. Trump abruptly removed from her post as ambassador to Ukraine in May. Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, was working at the time to persuade Ukraine to carry out the two investigations.Story continues below advertisementMs. Yovanovitch told lawmakers behind closed doors on Oct. 11 that Mr. Trump ousted her based on “unfounded and false claims by people with clearly questionable motives” after she came under attack by Mr. Giuliani.On Wednesday, Mr. Taylor offered a new disclosure that indicated Mr. Trump’s keen interest in the investigations in Ukraine, saying a member of his staff overheard a July 26 phone call at a restaurant in which Mr. Trump asked about the probes the President had asked Mr. Zelensky to conduct a day earlier.After the call between Mr. Trump and Gordon Sondland, a former political donor appointed as the U.S. envoy to the European Union, the staff member asked Mr. Sondland what Mr. Trump thought about Ukraine, Mr. Taylor said.“Ambassador Sondland responded that President Trump cares more about the investigations of Biden, which Giuliani was pressing for,” Mr. Taylor testified.Republican lawmakers called Mr. Taylor’s account hearsay.A second staffer for the U.S. embassy in Kyiv overheard the phone call between Mr. Trump and Mr. Sondland, the Associated Press reported on Thursday, citing an unnamed source briefed on the situation.Story continues below advertisementMr. Trump told reporters after the hearing that he knew “nothing” about the call with Mr. Sondland.The staffer cited by Mr. Taylor is David Holmes, a Taylor aide who has been subpoenaed to testify in the inquiry on Friday behind closed doors, said a person familiar with the issue.Democrats are aiming to settle the question of Mr. Trump’s impeachment before the end of the year.Our Morning Update and Evening Update newsletters are written by Globe editors, giving you a concise summary of the day’s most important headlines. Sign up today.Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way. Click here to subscribe.If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to letters@globeandmail.com. Readers can also interact with The Globe on Facebook and Twitter .Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way. Click here to subscribe.If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to letters@globeandmail.com. Readers can also interact with The Globe on Facebook and Twitter .Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff.We aim to create a safe and valuable space for discussion and debate. That means:Comments that violate our community guidelines will be removed.Read our community guidelines hereDiscussion loading ...Read most recent letters to the editor.© Copyright 2019 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved.351 King Street East, Suite 1600, Toronto, ON Canada, M5A 0N1Phillip Crawley, Publisher