APThe Green Bay Packers host the Carolina Panthers on Sunday.The Green Bay Packers (7-2), led by quarterback Aaron Rodgers and head coach Matt LaFleur, meet the Carolina Panthers (5-3), led by running back Christian McCaffrey and head coach Ron Rivera, in a Week 10 matchup on Sunday, November 10, 2019 (11/10/19) at Lambeau Field in Green Bay, Wisconsin.Here’s what you need to know:Who: Panthers vs. PackersWhat: NFL, Week 10When: Sunday, Nov. 10, 2019Where: Lambeau FieldTime: 4:25 p.m. EasternTV: FOXChannel finder: Verizon Fios, AT&T U-verse, Comcast Xfinity, Spectrum/Charter, Optimum/Altice, DIRECTV, Dish, Hulu, fuboTV, SlingRadio: SiriusXM (free trial)Live stream (local market only): fuboTV (free trial), Hulu, SlingLive stream (out-of-market): NFL Sunday TicketBetting line: Packers -5.5, O/U 47.5 | Get betting tips and analysis via NJ.com/betting***Aaron Rodgers couldn’t quite put his finger on it, but the two-time MVP knew something was missing last Sunday.Rodgers was sacked three times, and the Green Bay Packers' offense had its most anemic performance under coach Matt LaFleur in a 26-11 loss to the Los Angeles Chargers."It was such a different feeling," said Rodgers, who was held to a career-low 61 yards through the first three quarters. "We just didn't have that normal juice. ... I'm not calling anybody specifically out, I'm just saying there was obviously something that threw us off a little bit energetically."Green Bay (7-2) will look to bounce back Sunday when it hosts the Carolina Panthers (5-3), a team the Packers have scored 30-plus points against in five of the six games they've played at Lambeau Field.Rodgers will have his top target, Davante Adams, for the second straight game. The two-time Pro Bowl receiver continues to work his way back to full strength after missing four games with turf toe."They've been able to move the ball since I've been out, so the focus shouldn't change on how we're trying to do things," said Adams, who had a team-high seven catches for 41 yards against the Chargers. "Obviously, me being a big part of the offense, I'm going to get my looks here and there and I'm going to do what I can with that and make the biggest impact I can for the team. It's not about me being back, so nothing should change as far as how we're trying to beat teams. It's not going to be some crazy air attack and have 15 targets every game."(The Associated Press contributed to this report.)Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy© 2019 NJ.com. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of NJ.com.Community Rules  apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.Ad Choices