






 


        Dagne Dover is extending its Cyber Monday sale through December 4. You can still take 20% off everything sitewide, but certain styles are quickly selling out.
      
Dagne Dover

Updated 12/3/19 at 11:37 am ETHandbag startup Dagne Dover is extending its rare 20% Cyber Monday discount through December 4. There's no code needed, the discount will be automatically applied at checkout. The extended Cyber Monday sale ends at 11:59 p.m. PST on December 4.The company has great gifts starting at $35 and up, and it's also curated a handy gift guide if you're stuck. Insider Picks has reviewed many of the brand's weekenders, work totes, laptop sleeves, backpacks, and diaper bags, and we've been consistently impressed.But in our experience, it's hard to go wrong with any item from Dagne Dover. We've ranked the Dakota Backpack (currently on sale for $140) as the best backpack on the internet, and the Signature Tote (currently $212) — with an honorable mention to the more expensive Allyn Tote (currently $276)  — as the best work bag for women. We also love the Landon Carryall (currently $148) as a weekender bag.If you need more gift inspiration, you can find all the Insider Picks 2019 holiday gift guides here.








        We've ranked the Dakota Backpack as the best backpack on the internet, and during Dagne & Dover's extended Monday sale, it's just $140.
      
Dagne Dover/Facebook

*Note: Some colors are sold out or low in stock, but many are still available. *Note: Not all of the deals in the articles below are still live, but some may be. We're working to update them through the day with extended deals.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.