Lasers, holograms of ex-girlfriends, and techno music. That’s what kicked off Tesla’s truck reveal event, and to be honest, I was pretty stoked for the first 3-5 minutes… right before Elon announced and revealed what the Tesla Cybertruck looked like. The truck made its appearance, amidst fog and laser beams, and my heart instantly collapsed. It was a silver Toblerone on wheels.The Tesla Cybertruck looks like someone accidentally rendered out a low-poly version of what the actual truck was supposed to look like. Now mind you, the Cybertruck is a pretty remarkable vehicle on paper, but I doubt it’ll turn heads for the right reasons. The vehicle is composed ONLY of straight lines, and looks like someone did origami with sheet metal. The truck comes with Tesla’s own proprietary alloy of stainless steel which is strong enough to stop a 9mm bullet and even doesn’t dent. A gentleman with a sledgehammer even tried. In hindsight, maybe this metal alloy presents some styling constraints, or maybe it isn’t easy to fabricate into 3D curves, which is why the Cybertruck looks so literally boxy and un-car-like, but I’m not really a material specialist, so I really can’t tell. All I can say is that in the aesthetics department, the Cybertruck is no Roadster or Tesla Semi. In its desperate attempt to be a unique looking vehicle, it forgets to look like a vehicle. It literally feels like someone rehashed the weird, pyramidical 1980 Citroën Karin concept and electrified it.Musk then went on to further display the Cybertruck’s strength by talking about its super-strong Armor Glass. The demo, however, went horribly wrong when the glass actually shattered not once, but twice after having a massive metal ball pelted at it. This additionally meant that for the rest of the event, we had to stare at Elon trying to sell us on a car with shattered windows.Like I mentioned earlier, the Cybertruck still is a pretty good truck on paper. It accelerates faster than a Porsche 911, and has enough towing capacity to completely obliterate a Ford F150 in a tug of war. The electric vehicle boasts of an incredible range of 250 miles on a single charge and is priced starting at $39,000, which is extremely competitive for a pickup truck, not to mention the amount you’ll additionally save not spending on gas and oil changes… If only the Cybertruck looked a little like this though.Designer: TeslaWhat if you didn’t need a screen to learn code? What if this new method was playful and intuitive enough to help children learn the basics…After a pretty successful campaign in 2018 with over 4500 backers, the guys at MessyWeekend are back with their latest ski-goggle design that boasts of increased…The BKR is a concept bicycle that uses wood for its physical and natural proprieties of sustainability, malleability and elasticity. The mainframe skeleton is crafted from…Coincidentally, I just finished a nighttime bike ride and totally needed my lights… only, they were stolen. It happens! If only my lights were built in…Argueably the most sustainable scooter in the world, “Be.e” is constructed almost entirely of bio-composites. The monocoque body is made from flax and bio-resin, and its…We usually consider ATV’s to be testosterone-fueled tuff stuff, and this quad is no exception, but you might find its aesthetic inspiration surprisingly soft! The Shiva…We’re an online magazine dedicated to covering the best in international product design. We have a passion for the new, innovative, unique and undiscovered. With our eyes firmly focused on the future.