How much content can we milk out of the new Mustang Mach-E? Plenty, as it turns out.When this EV hits the streets next year, it’ll be offered in several different trims. By definition, there must be a base model, right? Absolutely. And, in this case, it is called the Select (cue raging Lincoln loyalists). This post isn’t to acquit the Mach-E or Ford’s decision to call the thing a Mustang. Rather, it’s to see if the cheapest version has enough equipment to warrant a look when it shows up in a few months.The entry-level Select currently has an MSRP of $43,895. We say currently not simply because we cannot pass up an electricity-related joke but also because that price may waffle a bit between now and the car’s introduction. Note well: the more expensive models will appear first, with this Select trim not showing up until early 2021. Why? Because profits, of course.It’s not as if the Select is wanting for features. Like its more expensive brothers, it comes with the Tesla-esque 15.5-inch jumbotron touchscreen, giant 10.2-inch digital cluster, and all manner of driving aids in the form of Ford’s CoPilot 360. And in a move certain to enrage Luddites across the nation, the company’s Phone As A Key functionality is standard, as well.Its standard-range battery is estimated to provide 230 miles of range, short of the much-touted and Tesla-competitive 300 miles, but still more than enough to handle the commute of most drivers. Power is estimated to be in the 255 horsepower range, allowing the Mach-E Select to scamper to 60 mph from rest in about 6.3 seconds. At this price, all power is funnelled through the rear wheels; all-wheel drive is a $2,700 proposition here.Henry Ford would be proud, as any color off the greyscale is an extra charge item. Shadow Black is shown here. Rapid Red and Infinite Blue are $400, while a metallic white adds $600 to the note. There is no panoramic fixed-glass roof on the Select, which is fine by your author. The absence of power folding mirrors and memory functions for the power seats is an oddity.Bumping up to other trims brings more power and range, depending on one’s selection. The high-po GT that’s getting all the press (thanks to its estimated sub-four second 0-60 time) is listed at $60,500. The long-range California Route 1 trim delivers the magic 300 mile number but will start at $52,400.It’s worth noting that a perusal of Ford’s other wares reveals a mid-level Explorer Limited bearing a sticker of $48,130 yet devoid of big touchscreens and other features in comparison (a base rear-drive, cloth-trimmed Explorer XLT is $36,675). Someone will surely point out that the gas-powered Explorer’s range is much more than 230 miles.Regardless of what one thinks of Ford’s naming conventions, there’s an argument to be made that the entry-level Mach-E might very well be the best steed of the breed. We won’t know until we try one next year.[Images: Ford]Not every base model has aced it. The ones which have? They help make the automotive landscape a lot better. Any others you can think of, B&B? Let us know in the comments and feel free to eviscerate our selections.The model above is shown with American options and priced in American Dollars. Your dealer may sell for less.I had guessed this would settle in at about $50K at normal trim levels, so I don’t find the pricing at all shocking  ;-)Pretty much every base Mustang ever has been bland and boring, until very recently when the base engines (3.7 and then 2.3T) got as powerful as GT engines used to be.There is nothing Mustang about this car, except the horse emblem and the taillight design.
They should have called it the Galax-E. The mustang emblem could have been replaced by something cool and interstellar looking, made up of LED lights. No one would be ticked off at Ford’s cynicism. Imagine Mazda building a new electric CUV and calling it the Miata-E.
(RX-E, maybe…)
Or GM naming their electric Tahoe the Corvett-E. Ford needs a home run, and they have hit a weak grounder to the pitcher.That looks like eighteen thousand bucks. When I rent a car, the last things I want to worry about are where I’m going to plug it in and how far I can go when I want to. This car should have been called the Focus, and that’s what it looks comparable to.This, I would expect something like this from Hyundai with a poverty spec 2.0T for $18k, but I mean this is suppose to be Fords effort at future proofing? Suddenly the Bolt looks upmarket and hip.How come everyone is excited about this new Mustang, but no one seems to be buying the Bolt?That’s the reason it’s even called a mustang in the first place.  Eyeballs.probably for the same reason this thing was re-designed partway through.  The Bolt looks like a stubby little compliance pod.Boy, 4th article in 2 days! This Mustang “Tuna” Maki coverage is the most expansive new car release coverage I think I’ve seen since the GM X-Cars came out in 1979! Hopefully that’s not a hairbinger.Maybe they should’ve called it the “Chris Econo-Mach-E”.In case anyone wants to stroll through memory lane!http://oldcarbrochures.org/United%20States/Chevrolet/1980-Chevrolet/1980-Chevrolet-Citation-Brochure/index.htmlAwful cars  :(I was there on launch day in 1979, looking at the Citations at a Chevy dealer not too far from here.  IIRC, they had a green Iron Duke 3-door 4-speed hatchback and a 5-door hatchback (don’t remember the color) with the 2.8 V6 and auto on the showroom floor.  My sister bought a Citation Club Coupe (the notchback) with the V6 and automatic the next year, trading in her ’78 Camaro sport coupe (350 4-barrel with Turbo 350).  The Citation turned out to be the worst car she ever owned, that is until the new Range Rover she owned about 15 years ago.And then they turned that Sow’s Ear into a silk purse with the A-bodies which owed much of their engineering to the X-body.Those who were around back then cannot understate the hype those X-cars debuted to. Like now, the automotive “media” breathlessly hyped them and all of us knew someone who jumped on the bandwagon and bought one of those sh1tty things. This reminds me a lot of that time period.If the Mustang Tuna Maki wins Motor Trend’s CoY, we’ll know to get out the popcorn, as something terrible is going to happen!$43,895 is so entry level. As if.Vote for Warren and it will only be fifteen thousand with government rebates!I saw that story where most all the tax credit subsidy money on juice cars is going to US households > $100k per year income.  We’d be better off giving poor people “gas stamps”.Put a free Nissan Versa in every poor garage and tight City parking space! That would be more cost effective and environmentally impactful. I agree that only richies are buying EVs. Has anyone ever seen a working man in one of those? I don’t think so.Nah, we’ll just have Mexico or China pay for it.Ugh.  I think with this article, both AOB and TTAC as a whole have officially jumped the shark.  Non-stop articles about this vehicle feeding into the hype, while posting an article calling themselves out for doing so is getting ridiculous.To keep this at least somewhat related to an AOB article, how does a vehicle that’s been officially released for less than 72 hours with little concrete information on options and prices even qualify? We know that AWD is $2,700, so that clearly helps an AOB case, but aside from paint, we don’t know what the other options are. The actual price of the vehicle is still even an estimate.  We’re really cashing in on the hype machine here.Agreed.  It’s hard to take seriously an “Ace of Base” story on a 2021 car in 2019, which isn’t even available and whose pricing isn’t finalized.But we’ve helped with the click count.Bingo. How can anyone claims this is an “Ace” of anything, nobody has even driven it yet.They got my click too, so sadly this non-stop Mach-E stuff is working. I mainly clicked because based on the picture I thought the Honda CrossTour was coming back.A lot to consider here. I like the concept and applaud the direction, have to see how it works out. Using the Mustang name is, I think, a big mistake. Don’t dilute the brand! That’s a GM type chump trick.Phone As A Key functionality?  I’ll spring for the Goldmember Edition with Winkie As A Key functionality…Seriously – enough with the Electric Horse, man.  Let’s talk about something interesting.  Have you seen Ken Block’s Climbkhana 2 yet?  Go watch it.  How about that road?  Amazing, right?  Wouldn’t it be great to take a Miata or a Fiesta ST up that?  It’s hip to rip Block, but man, that guy can drive.  Put me on that road in a 900hp stunt truck and I’d be through the blocks and over the cliff.It is called “Select” because you should be selecting one of the other trim levels.The same irony as “Limited” actually meaning you need an “Unlimited” amount of money to purchase one.I would think the base price on this would drive down the Bolt/Leaf prices right? I mean, I’m not a fan of this “Mustang” but it’s a nicer car than either of those, jumbotron aside.
I’ve said it many times, when electric vehicles in the “commute car” class get to “commute car” prices they begin to make sense. As long as you can have a second car to travel to the relatives, one car with a limited (~250 mile) range is fine.Yes that. The epic depreciation of something like a Leaf is the reason that many buy a used one just for commuting. 20 miles a day or something similar as long as you have a vehicle that can be used for long trips. Some of the off lease ones are so cheap you can just go ahead and pay cash.The base version looks like a cross between a fourth-gen Hyundai Elantra and a Honda Accord Crosstour.  All for $43,895.Many if not most of these are going to sell in cities. Leaving the power folding mirrors off the affordable version may cost a few sales.So the base model is 44k.  Add TT&L and dealer bs and you’re at 50k.  Deduct the tax credit you’ll get and you’re back to around 43k.   For a stripped car.  These will make great off lease purchases assuming Ford doesn’t pull an Aviator/Explorer and bomb the launch with quality problems.  Figure at 3 years old they’ll be 60-70% depreciated.Horrible interior.  Tesla Model 3 tier: lazy minimalism, and frankly cost cutting (cheaper to put buttons on a screen than to integrate them well into an actual dash interface).Every time I look at that center screen, it looks dumber and more intrusive.IBM joke: Call it the Selectric.I miss seeing and hearing those little balls dancing around on my desk.What TTAC needs is to post about another 37 stories about the MUSTANG MACH-EYAAAAAAWNThis Ecosport Mustang is truly awful and in base trim downright cartoonish.  Such a sad and pathetic effort.   You literally have a clean sheet design and this is the best they could come up with. This should be all the evidence people need to know that Ford is extremely disinterested in building automobiles.You must be logged in to post a comment.