by Anmol@anmol_112Just a couple of hours back, we reported that Tesla is finally taking the wraps off its much anticipated Cybertruck. Now, Tesla’s official account has confirmed that the launch is scheduled for 8 PM PT today.As usual, the launch of the Cybertruck will be live-streamed online. Unfortunately, neither Tesla nor Elon Musk has shared the live stream details but the official Tesla account confirmed a live stream of the launch. We will be updating the article as soon as the details of the live stream are available.Cybertruck Unveil starts at 8Stay tuned for livestream pic.twitter.com/zrbsoKKLd7— Tesla (@Tesla) November 21, 2019Elon Musk teased that the Cybertruck will be the official truck for Mars. The same tweet also confirmed that the company will be building a pressurized edition of the truck which will be used on Mars.Tesla Cybertruck (pressurized edition) will be official truck of Mars— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 21, 2019Musk had earlier said the truck will look like an armoured personnel carrier from the future. He has also said it will feature a 400-500 mile range, dual-motor all-wheel-drive drive train and dynamic suspension, and “300,000 lbs of towing capacity,” and will cost less than $50,000 and “be better than a Ford F150.” Musk promised their truck would be “a better sports car than a standard Porsche 911”, as well as a “better truck than a Ford F-150 in terms of truck-like functionality.” Elon Musk has been open about his dream of going to Mars and it looks like Cybertruck is just another step to fulfil his dream.The Tesla Cybertruck Launch will be in Los Angeles near the SpaceX rocket factory at 8 PM PT (11 PM ET or 4 AM UTC). We will update the article once the live-stream details have been shared.Update: Tesla’s Twitter account has posted the link to watch the live stream of the launch. The event will be live-streamed on livestream.tesla.com.Cybertruck Unveil livestream starts at 8pm https://t.co/BhTBgNqeWQ pic.twitter.com/qzKnsIkkms— Tesla (@Tesla) November 22, 2019by Surur on November 21, 2019by Rahulby Rahulby Sururby AnmolApple recently launched the new Apple AirPods Pro for $250, but surprisingly it is already possible to grab a pair at a considerable discount. The AirPods Pro features Active Noise Cancellat...In September Amazon announced a slew of devices that expands all nooks and crannies of the Amazon Echo ecosystem, with one of the most popular likely being the Amazon Echo Show 8, for which ...Amazon is not waiting until Black Friday to offer deep iPad Pro discounts at their web store. Today you can get the latest 12.9-inch iPad Pro with 256GB storage for just $949.99, $199.01 off...Dell has released its list of Black Friday deals to help get the holiday shopping season kickstarted. Starting with the easy to throw into a carry-on Dell XPS 13 2-in-1, announced only in Ma...Microsoft is now offering a deal on its Surface Go that’s specially tailored to families with tech-savvy kids. Starting from $440, you can build a “Surface Go Kids Bundle”,...The most interesting mainstream laptop of the last 12 months is still the HP Spectre Folio. Dressed in leather, the high-end laptop can be a tablet, laptop or turn into a presentation tent m...Apple’s Powerbeats Pro with adjustable, secure-fit ear hooks, are on sale for $199.95- down from $249.95, making it a saving of 20%, or $50. The headphones offer up to 12 hours of list...In September, Lenovo announced seven new Yoga 2-in-1 Windows PCs and today the C940 range have become available for purchase. Lenovo made the following updates to Alexa on Yoga PCs: Lock Scr...A bit like the Surface Studio, Microsoft’s Surface Headphones have been universally lauded for its design, which combines both extreme comfort and ease of use. The headphones, which ar...In the run-up to Microsoft’s Surface event next month, Microsoft is running a big sale on the whole Surface range, from the Surface Go to the Surface Book. The Surface Go range is seei...