returning from november 22nd - december 1st, the 2019 LA auto show witnesses the global debuts of many new models from the leading automotive brands’ portfolios. the annual event inaugurated in 1907 and gained significant success over the californian city’s influential car craze. nowadays, the show exhibits electrified visions of the connected car of the future.car design covers all automotive platforms with four wheels.tesla has unveiled its first pickup truck, a highly-anticipated vehicle elon musk has been teasing since 2016. the tesla chief executive and multi-billionaire launched the electric pickup near spaceX’s rocket factory in los angeles on thursday (november 21), detailing its starting price amongst other specs including a bulletproof exoskeleton and armored glass.images courtesy of tesla  musk has tweeted that the cybertruck design was partly influenced by the lotus esprit sportscar that doubled as a submarine in the 1970s james bond film the spy who loved me. the result is what looks like a low-poly blade runner fantasy.  the battery-powered pickup seats six inside a nearly impenetrable exoskeleton. tesla says every component is designed for superior strength and endurance, from the ultra-hard 30x cold-rolled stainless steel to the tesla armor glass. this didn’t stop the windows from shattering during a failed resistance test during the launch.  tesla plans to offer three variants of the cybertruck with the cheapest version starting at $39,000. it will feature a single motor and rear-wheel drive, with have a towing capacity of 7,500 pounds and more than 250 miles of range. the middle version will be a dual-motor all-wheel drive, have a towing capacity of more than 10,000 pounds and be able to travel more than 300 miles on a single charge, priced at $49,900.  finally, a third version boasts three electric motors and all-wheel, a towing capacity of 14,000 pounds and battery range of more than 500 miles. this version, known as ‘tri motor’ is priced at $69,900 and can accelerate from 0 to 60 mph in less than 6.5 seconds. tesla says production is expected to begin in late 2021. project info company: tesla model: cybertruck price: starting from $39,000 available: 2021 preorder: now via: automobile maghave something to add? share your thoughts in our comments section below.all comments are reviewed for the purposes of moderation before publishing.(5 to 20 characters)it will appear at the bottom of the article max 14 charactersa diverse digital database that acts as a valuable guide in gaining insight and information about a product directly from the manufacturer, and serves as a rich reference point in developing a project or scheme.a solution to one of the world's major eco problems might involve creating clothes that don't actually exist.a solution to one of the world's major eco problems might involve creating clothes that don't actually exist.still a flip, it keeps much of the same form but the revived version has a foldable plastic OLED panel in place of the T9 keypad.still a flip, it keeps much of the same form but the revived version has a foldable plastic OLED panel in place of the T9 keypad.called the 'volkspod', brent walter repurposes the fenders from a type 1 model melding them together to create a custom frame.called the 'volkspod', brent walter repurposes the fenders from a type 1 model melding them together to create a custom frame.the bike – strictly limited to just 100 examples – features a strong, sculptural body form, accented by a carbon fiber fin.the bike – strictly limited to just 100 examples – features a strong, sculptural body form, accented by a carbon fiber fin.