Volkswagen previewed the ID. Space Vizzion
Concept at the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles, California. It not
only culminates the first-ever all-electric estate or station wagon, but it’s
actually a virtual light show on wheels. So, this is what the future is about, huh?
Where ordinary vehicles will only blink the parking lights to welcome your presence,
the VW ID. Space Vizzion does more than that. Unlocking the vehicle turns on
the bright white VW logos in the front and rear, which is followed by those light
strips on the front section. At this point, the light show is only getting warmed up. See those honeycomb-style LED lights in the bumper? Those will set off too. All the while, the red horizontal panel in the rear also turns on along with the digital blinking effect on the matrix-style LED headlights, which resemble human eyes waking up in the presence of the master.And as soon as you lock the vehicle and
walk away, the lights will start initiating a goodbye sequence. This all sounds
gimmicky, we know. But electric cars need to forge a certain connection with
the owner, and this holds true in the absence of a fire-breathing
internal-combustion motor.So yeah, the lighting sequence is a brilliant
idea. Thanks, Volkswagen!The whole world knows about America’s propensity for large and high-riding family SUVs. However, station wagons are a more practical alternative offering similar levels of interior and cargo room. And while station wagons are not that popular given its boring image, the VW ID. Space Vizzion wants to change all that.  According to Volkswagen, the ID. Space
Vizzion is the seventh concept built on top of its exclusive MEB platform. With
no use for a heavy gasoline-powered motor, designers were given freer reign to
nail an aerodynamically swooping design. With a low hood, zero door handles,
and an optimized rear spoiler and diffuser, the ID. Space Vizzion’s coefficient
of drag is rated at Cd 0.24.If you don’t know what that means, consider
this: The ID. Space Vizzion has the same Cd as a Tesla Model S and Mercedes-Benz
S-Class. In base form, the Volkswagen ID. Space
Vizzion is fitted with a rear-mounted electric motor and rear-wheel-drive. This
alone provides 275-horsepower and 406 pound-feet of torque. But when equipped
with two electric motors, you have a combined output of 335-horsepower and 517
pound-feet of torque along with VW’s electric 4Motion all-wheel-drive. In that configuration, the VW IS. Space
Vizzion accelerates to 60 mph in five seconds flat and a top speed of 109 mph.
Given the instant torque of one or two electric motors, the VW ID. Space
Vizzion is purported to be quite zippy around town.According to VW, the ID. Space Vizzion with
rear-wheel drive is good for maximum EPA range of up to 300 miles on a single
charge. The motor feeds power from an 82 kWh lithium-ion battery pack mounted
deep in the floor pan. The batteries are engineered to accept DC fast-charging
up to 150 kW, which juices up the pack up to 80-percent in around 30 minutes. The multifunction steering wheel has capacitive touch panels while the instrument console is replaced with an augmented reality heads-up display. Passengers get to fiddle with a large 15.6-inch landscape touchscreen panel that seems to float or hover in the center console. Even though the Volkswagen ID. Space Vizzion is just a concept, it serves as an essential ingredient towards the general acceptance of EVs in general. If we can have EV hatchbacks (Nissan Leaf), EV SUVs (Mazda MX-30, Ford Mustang Mach-E), and electric hypercars (Pininfarina Battista, Lotus Evija), we think it’s high time we get an EV estate – even though it’s only in concept form at the moment.Alvin spent his childhood dreaming about flying airplanes and driving fast cars. After many years of studying aviation and accounting, he ended up doing the thing he loves the most: writing about cars. He has been an automotive journalist for over ten years.This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.