ERIC KIMBLOGAt this point, I feel like a mini-master in street photography. Here is the advice I will give you on your personal journey:Okay so this is the thing — when you start street photography, you’re going to read a lot of mumbo jumbo on the internet when it comes to street photography. What to do, what not to do. The ideal gear and equipment, etc. To be frank, I cannot trust anyone on the internet. I only trust the dead masters of photography, and the few living masters. Furthermore, NEVER TRUST or listen to the advice of a photography/art curator, commentator, or “critic”. Ignore any words regarding street photography from anyone who ISN’T a real practitioner of street photography. It is one thing to theorize; another to do.“Ultimately, it comes down to a matter of taste.” – Steve JobsApparently the notion of ‘taste’ is also linked to the notion of ‘knowledge’ and ‘wisdom’ (ancient Greeks. I read this anecdote in Nietzsche).When it comes to your taste in art, it ultimately comes down to your personal taste and aesthetics. There are no ultimate ‘superior’ or ‘inferior’ forms of aesthetics. There are simply preferences. So the question is this:What aesthetics do you prefer in art?For myself, I have taken a HUGE liking to the aesthetics of Steve Jobs, zen minimalism, simplicity, Bauhaus, Elon Musk/Tesla. The notion I have is this:Simpler and stronger.Similar aesthetics to the ancient Greeks, and the poetry of Homer (I am still so blown away by how simple language Homer uses in the Iliad, and yet how much force, energy, and power his words have!)This is why I love monochrome. The simplest aesthetic to maximize visual impact.I’ve always loved dark, gritty, strong. This is why at HAPTIC, I like the notion of ‘PHANTOM BLACK‘. With aesthetics and taste, don’t let anyone super-impose their tastes on you. For example, don’t let pretentious wine snobs “educate” how you “should” drink wine, or what pairing are ‘legitimate’ (for example, it is totally fine to drink white wine with steak — who made up these stupid rules?)Same in photography. Just ask yourself:Do I prefer monochrome or color?Also, realize that often over time, your tastes change and evolve. And that’s totally fine too!For example, I love monochrome. It was my first love, and I will always love it. But I was curious about color, so I experimented with my street portraits. Shot on RICOH GR II and flash:But it seems I keep coming back to monochrome:I feel that your growth as a street photographer must be organic. You cannot force it. I do believe growth does happen from a ‘dialectic’ of:Fighting two ideas, and growth happens from this strife.For example, I learn the lessons from the masters, then challenge it, and discover my own deeper personal truth.The most important thing:Never become discouraged, and never let anyone bully you into believing a contrary idea.I have theorized and practiced much when it comes to equipment for street photography. These are my beliefs:This is what I discovered about focal length and lenses for street photography:For street portraits, it seems that 28mm is the widest limit. At 24mm and 21mm, the lens is simply too wide. If you can only have one lens in your arsenal (the zen of one camera, one lens), I would recommend:For example, some lens recommendations based on camera brands:Master, maestro, idol? The etymology of the word ‘master’ goes back to ‘magnus‘ (great). So if your goal is to become a master street photographer, your goal is to become a GREAT street photographer.Then comes the question:What makes a great photographer?Is a photographer great when they have the ability to make great photos? Is ‘greatness’ about their ability or skill of making great photographs? Is being great more about their attitude and courage, and penchant for risk-taking? Is greatness fame? What is greatness?The closest thing I got so far is this:To become ‘great’ literally means to become BIG.Or the word ‘mahas‘ in Sanskrit, we mean:So if you become a great street photographer, it means:Of course. Let us note Saul Leiter (didn’t get famous until he was very old), and Vivian Maier (never famous in her lifetime, but still great).I’m lucky that I am a great marketer of myself and my work (my background in sociology, marketing, social media, Google SEO, etc). Also, I’ve become a big street photographer by deep experimentation and through much practice. STREET PHOTOGRAPHY 101 has been my magnum opus so far. I don’t know anyone who has pursued street photography with as much zeal as I have over the years in such a short period of time (2009-2019). Then comes the question:Do you want to become both GREAT in street photography AND famous?For entrepreneurial matters, read up on Photography Entrepreneurship 101 >Essentially during your quest to becoming a great street photographer — share your lessons, tips, techniques and knowledge with others along the way! In praise of OPEN SOURCE information and knowledge.SHOOT ON!ERICCONQUER YOUR FEARS AND MEET NEW PEERS at ERIC KIM EXPERIENCE >If you’re new to street photography, start here:STREET PHOTOGRAPHY STARTER KIT: Everything You Need to Master Street Photography.



Email Address 










For more free resources, presets, and PDF visualizations on street photography, join my free ERIC KIM NEWSLETTER to stay inspired and empowered.Also join ERIC KIM EXPERIENCE if you want to take your street photography to the next level and conquer your fears and meet new peers.To join a positive and passionate community, share your photos in ERIC KIM FORUM. Look forward to having you friend :)See HENRI NECK STRAP on AMAZON >Push yourself out of your comfort zone with STREET NOTES: Mobile Edition.STREET NOTES PAPER EDITION ON AMAZON >Timeless wisdom from the masters of street photography.Learn more about MASTERS >Buy MASTERS on Amazon >Get started in street photography:See all equipment articles >See all articles to conquer your fears >Take your street photography to the next level:Find deeper meaning in your street photography:Learn how to shoot on the streets:See all street photography tips and techniques >In-depth guides on street photography:The best equipment for street photography:See all equipment articles >“He without a past has no future.”Start here:Classics never die:See all free downloads >Distilled information on street photography:For more resources on photography, Start Here >Experiences never die:Join ERIC KIM NEWSLETTER and be the first to get exclusive content, free ebooks, presets, and upcoming workshops coming to your area:Get real feedback on your photos: ARSBETA.COMAll information here is open-source