China’s first model to tackle Europe’s electric car market is the Aiways U5 and as you can see, it’s an SUV.
The Shanghai-based carmaker has managed to secure all the required permits and certifications for a European launch, and is planning on starting sales in the second quarter of 2020, stated its co-founder Fu Qiang during an interview. The U5 will otherwise go on sale in China this month, reports Autonews Europe.Its debut in Europe will be closely monitored by multiple other Chinese EV-makers that hope to achieve success on the Old Continent. The road to drawing customers away from the likes of Tesla or the VW Group won’t be an easy one though, despite Aiways adapting the European variant of the U5 to local requirements.Also read: Aiways U5 EV Reaches Frankfurt After Epic 9,334-Mile Drive From China, Sets World Record“I believe we will be the first,” said Fu during the interview. Others “are still in the preparation period,” or even further away with their plans, he stated.Of course, convincing European customers that a Chinese SUV can live up to their expectations is one of Aiways’ main challenges, especially since other Chinese companies have failed in that department before. On the flip side, Chinese consumer goods and mobile phone producers have built up trust with global customers, which is something that might translate into the automotive industry.Aiways will launch the U5 in China on November 29, with pricing to commence from 200,000 yuan to 300,000 yuan ($29,000 to $43,000).Once in Europe, the EV-maker will try to reach customers through pop-up stores, leasing offers and various local partners. The starting price for the entry-level model is roughly 25,000 euros ($28,000), making the U5 considerably less expensive than its European alternatives for this segment.Aiways…not Airwaysthankfully its considerably more ugly than European alternativesMG is Chinese, we have that alreadyHowever, MG markets themselves as being British and the gullible somehow still believe it. Aiways don’t really have that option…Its funny how a chinese company made a chinese copy of another chinese electric car(NIO) and in the same launch colour.Good luck…What an elegant, clean, balanced design. Interior is aces as well. Nice work, Aiways! (how are we supposed to pronounce this word?)They’ve always been trying to get their aiways into the EC.
sorryCOMPARED TO A LOT OF WHAT’S ON THE ROAD TODAY IT’S QUITE TASTEFUL.I will believe when I’ll see it. Probably they will end as all the rest. In oblivion.Here is my thing.
While i’m cool with EV’s moving forward, i still have an issue with range, which will get better.
Then there first glut of public ready mass market EV’s will come with all the issues.Thus it will be a 7 year wait before i get one, once the range and reliability issues of first generation are sorted out.
Finally price will always be an issue. Until mass production and economies of scale play out, the value for money proposition is off the table.Anyway, good strides forward and Chinese companies will be half the price of mainstream companies, so lets see how this plays out.Tata is reportedly in early talks with the two car makers and could still approach other companies.The 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio look unchanged on the outside but feature many interior and tech upgrades.The 1958 Plymouth Fury in question takes inspiration from the 1983 horror film Christine.Larte Design’s body kit for the Mercedes-Benz V-Class includes some carbon fiber add-ons.The Mitsubishi Xpander Cross offers a higher ground clearance and SUV-inspired styling cues.The final output numbers of this Supra engine are still a secret, but at least we get to listen to its growl.Unlike Daimler, BMW reportedly have their CO2 compliance costs under control for next year.The central-mounted exhausts that Porsche’s trying to mask seemsto suggest that a hotter Cayenne Coupe is coming.The fifth generation Honda City is based on the new Fit/Jazz and is less than 2 weeks away from its debut.The Mercedes-Maybach GLS will rival the Bentayga and Cullinan and will be unveiled in China on November 21.