(GERMANY OUT) Keys laying in grass  (Photo by Mayall/ullstein bild via Getty Images)For more than a century, the basic metal key with a toothed edge was an essential element of accessing and operating a car (legally at least). But that slim piece of toothed metal is rapidly moving toward irrelevance thanks to wireless communication technologies. The last physical car keys we use are likely to be those hidden away in a fob for the times when a battery is dead. When I was young, cars typically still had 2 keys, one for the door locks and another for the ignition and they only had teeth on one side. Eventually, we got consolidation so that a single key served both purposes and double edged keys eliminated the need to fumble with orientation. By the 1990s, coded chips in the key helped to reduce, but not eliminate theft. Then came the wireless fob that allowed doors to be locked and unlocked with the press of a button. Various sensors in door handles eliminated the need to even retrieve fobs from a pocket or bag and push button start simplified the process further. But even the fob may soon be a thing left in a drawer for emergencies only. Bluetooth LE, near-field communications (NFC) and now ultra-wideband are allowing drivers to utilize the smartphone. For many years, the advertising tagline for American Express was “never leave home without it.” Today, we are more likely to leave credit cards at home and never leave without a smartphone. For the better part of a decade, automakers have had systems that allow drivers to lock and unlock their vehicles from a phone app by tapping a button. The signal was sent over the cellular network to a modem in the car using a system like GM OnStar or Hyundai Bluelink. But that process could take up to a minute. Owners will be able to use their smartphone as a key when Lincoln debuts the Phone as a Key ... [+] technology on the production model of Aviator, allowing clients to lock and unlock the vehicle, open its trunk and, most importantly, start and drive it – no smart key fob necessary.
More recently, automakers including Tesla and Ford have started to deploy Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) to enable faster access when the phone is in proximity to the car but even these systems can take a couple of seconds to register. On the new 2020 Sonata sedan, Hyundai is enabling cellular, BLE and NFC. When you are away from the car and want to be sure it’s locked, the smartphone app uses a cellular connection. When you are within about 30 feet, the same app uses the BLE connection to lock or unlock the car. As you approach the car, you can tap the phone on the door handle just as you would when making mobile payments with Apple or Google Pay to unlock without actually launching the app by taking advantage of NFC. NXP and VW announced the first automotive applications of ultra-wideband wireless technology will ... [+] be... [+]Recently NXP and Volkswagen announced that they would begin using ultra-wideband (UWB) technology to provide faster, more secure localization and access capabilities. A new VW model launching in 2019 will use a key fob with UWB and NXP has just launched a new automotive grade UWB chip to support a variety of applications. The NCJ29D5 UWB chip is the first of a range of chips from NXP to go along with its Bluetooth, wifi, NFC and DSRC hardware that will provide ever more wireless connectivity. In addition to the usual key functions, equipping a car with UWB can enable a range of new functions such as automated valet parking, automatic billing for EV charging or fuel fill, other drive through payments and even short range radar systems. With smartphones like the new iPhone 11 series now coming to market with UWB built-in, they can be used as more secure digital keys. The Car Connectivity Consortium (CCC) is now developing digital key standards using UWB to enable interoperability between mobile devices and vehicles. Among the contributors to this effort are NXP, Continental, BMW and Apple. It will probably be several years before we see widespread deployment of UWB digital keys on our phones and in our cars. For those that tried to use tap-to-pay with smartphones in the early days, there was no shortage of frustrations with finding the right spot on the reader to tap, or even getting it to register at all. The same will likely be true with UWB digital keys. But if and when the CCC, phone makers and automakers get all of the kinks worked out, it will likely be a much more convenient and secure experience for getting access to the car. If you are using a rental or car share or making your own car available for others to use, transmitting a digital key to the user’s device and getting instant access should be a much better user experience.  We’ll probably still have a physical key somewhere as last level backup, but we may never use it during the life of the vehicle. I’ve spent my adult life working in and around the automotive industry. After earning a mechanical engineering degree from GMI I spent the next 17 years working on elec