One of the most intriguing reviews from season 27 of Top Gear featured Chris Harris, the Tesla Model 3 Performance, and three of the market’s finest European sports sedans.The review kicked off with a drag race between the all-electric Tesla, a Mercedes-AMG C 63 S, an Alfa Romeo Giulia Quadrifoglio and a BMW M3. To ensure the race was as competitive as possible, it was held over half a mile (804 meters) as opposed to a normal quarter-mile.Also Read: Driven – 2019 Tesla Model 3 Performance Is Charged With AppealUnsurprisingly, the Tesla Model 3 Performance powered off the line at frightening speed and easily out-sprinted its combustion-engined rivals to 100 mph (160 km/h). Slowly, though, the C 63 S, Giulia Quadrifoglio, and M3 started to close in on the Tesla as they passed 130 mph (209 km/h). The Mercedes managed to overtake the Model 3 just before the finish line, but the EV did beat out the Alfa Romeo and BMW.For the second test, the Top Gear crew set up a tight and twisty handling circuit to see if the Tesla could beat the potent Alfa Romeo in the handling department. According to Harris, the Giulia is beautifully sharp and a joy to drive through the corners. By comparison, the Tesla rolls more through the corners, feels lazier, and isn’t as controlled as the Italian sedan. Nevertheless, it managed to beat the Alfa Romeo, primarily because of its ability to launch out of corners with so much speed. Expected. You can’t beat electric power in term of launching out of the corners with so much speed and practically instant acceleration. But would that beat fun; being fun to drive. That’s a whole different and completely subjective topic.Yes, it can be and is incredibly fun – it’s mind-blowing how quick the Tesla Model 3 Performance is. However, does the Alfa’s agility make it even more fun? It sure seems like it from this review and wouldn’t surprise me.Chris Harris is the man.As far I know, he she never said what s e x he she feels like… So watch out.So silly. What percentage of ANY of these cars will EVER be taken to ANY track by any owner?You’re showing your age there Craig.I bet it’s less than one half of 1%.You’d be surprised. A Model 3 just became the first electric car to win an SCCA autocross national championship.And what percentage of Telsa Model 3 owners do you think have anything to do with the SCCA autocross?Guess you never heard of “track days”? It’s actually a “thing”.Give me a break. How many owners of these cars will EVER race them around a track?3 thumbs down. What planet to you guys live on?Best car ever made! Better than VW or any other brand.Careful, don’t get aroused.You seem to have a gender identity problem.because its a problem in our societyBoys have always been boys and girls have always been girls.Its only a problem if you make it one.Who says that? Your biology teacher our the habitus from your parents…Biology teacher, if you need a teacher to figure out what’s between your legs my friend, you got bigger problems than you know.Men can have periods too, women can have a “something between their legs. ENDYou have a lot to learn about life pal.lean? What about you and your closed mind…The model 3 is a newcomer. But not one to understimate!If there’s a better auto reviewer/journalist/vlogger than Chris Harris, I haven’t seen them. Some others come close: Throttle House guys, Harry something, and a few other Brits who’s names I don’t recall. Chris just seems to truly love cars and driving them, along with exceptional eloquence.
The Model 3 isn’t my cup of tea and I’d take any of the others it was pitted against over it. But, its hard to deny its performance. I just find it to be unforgivably ugly, like most all Tesla design is. But, at least the Model X SUV Whale looking thing has real road presence. The Model 3 truly looks like a refrigerator fell on its side and drove right out of a Sears clearance center.Tata is reportedly in early talks with the two car makers and could still approach other companies.The 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio look unchanged on the outside but feature many interior and tech upgrades.The 1958 Plymouth Fury in question takes inspiration from the 1983 horror film Christine.Larte Design’s body kit for the Mercedes-Benz V-Class includes some carbon fiber add-ons.The Mitsubishi Xpander Cross offers a higher ground clearance and SUV-inspired styling cues.The final output numbers of this Supra engine are still a secret, but at least we get to listen to its growl.Unlike Daimler, BMW reportedly have their CO2 compliance costs under control for next year.The central-mounted exhausts that Porsche’s trying to mask seemsto suggest that a hotter Cayenne Coupe is coming.The fifth generation Honda City is based on the new Fit/Jazz and is less than 2 weeks away from its debut.The Mercedes-Maybach GLS will rival the Bentayga and Cullinan and will be unveiled in China on November 21.