
Published on November 11th, 2019 |
                by Zachary ShahanNovember 11th, 2019 by Zachary Shahan Tracking monthly US auto sales has been a fascinating endeavor this past year. Unfortunately, we don’t get data from some brands — Tesla, all Ford Motor Company brands, GM brands, and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles brands, Jaguar Land Rover no longer report monthly sales. However, there are 17 brands that do report monthly US sales, so let’s have a look at them.We know that Tesla is selling tens of thousands of cars a quarter, and I think my initial thought when I started tracking monthly auto sales was to see if any particular company or companies seemed to be bleeding sales to Tesla. The latest data doesn’t show any clear sign of that from the automakers you’d most expect to be losing customers. That’s especially true for BMW, often presumed to be Tesla’s inherent arch rival. The German brand saw its US sales rise in October and they are also up for the year to date. They are heavily down compared to a few years ago, notably, but I think it’s worth highlighting that they have been up consistently in 2019.Auto brands that saw their October and January–October 2019 sales rise were Hyundai (up 18,005 in 2019), Kia (up 16,461), Honda (up 9,810), BMW (up 9,540), Genesis (up 7,563), & Volvo (up 4,983).Auto brands that saw their October and January–October 2019 sales drop were Nissan (down 66,642 in 2019), Toyota (down 43,603), Infiniti (down 20,049), and MINI (down 6,664).In net, just tracking the companies that report monthly sales in the country, sales were down 46,470 for the year through October but up 17,016 in October itself.Who’s really losing sales from the Tesla Model 3? Nissan, Toyota, Infiniti, and MINI? Who knows? It’s been a while since Tesla shared conquest sale data and claims.The biggest and most unfortunate takeaway from this sales report, like others, is that Americans continue to buy millions of polluting vehicles that are heating up our planet and wreaking havoc on society. Health problems like asthma and heart diseases are here to stay for as long as this is happening.If you’d like to buy a Tesla Model 3, Model S, or Model X and want 1,000 miles of free Supercharging, feel free to use my referral code: https://ts.la/zachary63404 — or use someone else’s if you have a friend or family member with a Tesla who has helped you more. The referral code can also be used for a $100 discount on Tesla solar.
 
 
Follow CleanTechnica on Google News.
It will make you happy & help you live in peace for the rest of your life.Tags: Acura, Alfa Romeo, audi, BMW, Buick, cadillac, chevrolet, Chrysler, Dodge, Fiat, Ford, Honda, Hyundai, infiniti, jeep, kia, Lexus, Lincoln, Mercedes, mini, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Ram, subaru, Tesla, Tesla Model 3, Tesla Model 3 sales, Tesla sales, Toyota, US auto imports, US auto sales, volkswagen, volvoZachary Shahan is tryin' to help society help itself one word at a time. He spends most of his time here on CleanTechnica as its director and chief editor. He's also the CEO of Important Media. Zach is recognized globally as an electric vehicle, solar energy, and energy storage expert. He has presented about cleantech at conferences in India, the UAE, Ukraine, Poland, Germany, the Netherlands, the USA, Canada, and Curaçao.

Zach has long-term investments in Tesla [TSLA] — after years of covering solar and EVs, he simply has a lot of faith in this company and feels like it is a good cleantech company to invest in. But he offers no investment advice and does not recommend investing in Tesla or any other company.Advertise with CleanTechnica to get your company in front of millions of monthly readers.The content produced by this site is for entertainment purposes only. Opinions and comments published on this site may not be sanctioned by, and do not necessarily represent the views of Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc., its owners, sponsors, affiliates, or subsidiaries.CleanTechnica is the #1 cleantech-focused news & analysis website in the US & the world, focusing primarily on electric cars, solar energy, wind energy, & energy storage.© 2019   Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc.