
JapanToday
Higashi-Azabu IS bldg, 4F
				1-8-1 Higashi-Azabu
				Minato-ku
				Tokyo 106-0044
				Japan
				Tel: +81 3 5561 7755
				Fax: +81 3 5561 7756
Email: editor@japantoday.com
©2019 GPlusMedia Inc.
The private SpaceX company on Monday launched a second set of mini-satellites as it builds a huge constellation of the small orbiting devices aimed at greatly expanding internet access around the globe.A Falcon-9 rocket launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida, placed 60 mini-satellites in orbit, joining 60 others launched in May.The American company's Starlink network could one day total 42,000 satellites -- resulting in far more crowded skies and raising concerns among some scientists.Scenes of the launch were broadcast live by SpaceX,  a company created by the entrepreneurial Elon Musk, who is also chief executive of Tesla Inc.SpaceX's goal is to control a huge share of the future internet market from space.But several rivals have the same ambition, including London-based startup OneWeb and giant U.S. retailer Amazon, whose Project Kuiper is far less advanced.Musk hopes eventually to control three to five percent of the global internet market -- a share valued at $30 billion a year, or 10 times what SpaceX is earning from its space launches.Musk's ultimate goal is to finance the development of his rockets and space vessels. SpaceX's boss entertains a long-time dream of colonizing Mars.His California-based company has so far received authorization from U.S. authorities to launch 12,000 satellites in several different orbits, and it has applied to launch as many as 30,000 more.Starlink is designed to provide high-speed internet connections on Earth. Its mini-satellites will orbit at relatively low altitude (550 kilometers, or 340 miles, for the first ones), allowing quick transmission times.SpaceX says its satellite constellation will be operational for Canada and the northern U.S. by next year. It says 24 more launches will be needed to extend coverage to the entire globe.At present, there are slightly more than 2,100 active satellites in orbit around the Earth. The idea of adding 42,000 has some scientists worried.Astronomers say the proliferation of the bright metallic satellites could seriously degrade the night view, interfering with telescopes trained on space. Others fear that the far more crowded skies will result in expensive collisions between satellites.A travel guide to Mie, Aichi, Gifu and Nagano prefecturesLearn MoreA guide to traveling in central JapanTwitter and facebook from anywhere on Earth is much more important than astronomy.  How else will astronomers share their discoveries with friends? /sLow-latency internet from anywhere in the world would be nice, especially at $80/month, assuming a 5m dish isn't needed.Space being apparently completely unregulated, or any regulations that do exist being probably unenforceable against rampant self serving capitalists, more seeds of future havoc being sown for short-term gain by a few.ishelToday  09:10 am JSTSpace being apparently completely unregulated, or any regulations that do exist being probably unenforceable against rampant self serving capitalists, more seeds of future havoc being sown for short-term gain by a few.Outer space is for research and should be used for the benefit of all mankind, as in the ISS space station - not for private business interests.Musk launched them, but who made them?  Huawei?Who give them the right to flood the orbit with private property stuff without any regulation? Then another company could send into space a craft or a device that collides with them or that willingly hit them. In that case what is the regulation? I mean, I find the thing pretty absurd. It would be just like a private company starts building uncontrolled and unregulated a networks of tunnels underneath our houses, cities without any responsibility taken whatsoever...Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.A guide to traveling in central JapanLearn MoreGet a Softbank Phone Service with a Japanese Number and Unlimited DataA mix of what's trending on our other sites
					GaijinPot Blog				
					Elana Jade Beauty Salon				
					GaijinPot Blog				
					Savvy Tokyo				
					Savvy Tokyo				
					Coconoma Season Dining				
					Savvy Tokyo				
					GaijinPot Blog				
					GaijinPot Travel				