
Published on November 11th, 2019 |
                by Sponsored ContentNovember 11th, 2019 by Sponsored Content By Natalie SnyderDrive your dream car this holiday season and enter to win a 2019 Tesla Model X!The Illinois Solar Energy Association (ISEA) is holding its annual fundraising raffle for a 2019 Tesla Model X. The Tesla Model X is an all-electric, American-made SUV that you can recharge in your home or on the road. Why use gas when you can run on electricity and holiday spirit? This SUV is the fastest, safest, strongest, and has the most storage space of any SUV in its class. With the ability to go from zero to 60 in 4.4 seconds, falcon-wing doors, and the most advanced autopilot technology on the market, the benefits of the Tesla Model X are so jolly, they’re amazing.Not only does the Tesla Model X offer luxury combined with durability, but it also is the one of the most colorfully decorated vehicles of our time. The Tesla Model X won Forbes’ Best Vehicle of the Year for 2017 and the American Automobile Association’s Top Green Vehicle overall for 2017.By entering into ISEA’s raffle, you also support the future of renewable energy. ISEA is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that represents over 600 clean energy advocates and businesses, and is the state resource for renewable energy related education and policy developments. ISEA Solar Ambassadors provide education opportunities through free monthly webinars and in person events. This volunteer group hosts the annual Illinois Solar Tour an opportunity for homeowners to visit homes and small businesses being powered by solar. All the funds from the Tesla Raffle go towards developing these resources to ensure that solar energy remains merry and bright!The raffle closes in just 3 weeks on November 29, 2019 so get your tickets before it is too late! The winning ticket will be drawn on December 5, 2019. Each ticket is $100, or you can get a discounted set of four tickets for $300. There are only 2,500 tickets for sale. If all the tickets are not sold, the winner will get 50% of the ticket sales. All residents of the continental US are eligible to win! Find further details and contest rules on our website.Gobble up this opportunity and drive away in your new Tesla Model X before the holidays! Show off your brand new luxury vehicle to friends and family; enter to win the Tesla Model X today. 
 
Follow CleanTechnica on Google News.
It will make you happy & help you live in peace for the rest of your life.Tags: Illinois Solar Energy Association, ISEA, Tesla, Tesla Model X, Tesla raffleSponsored Content CleanTechnica and our parent company, Important Media, occasionally choose to work with select clients for paid promotion on our network sites. This is the account for all paid content. For information about paid outreach, please contact our Accounts Manager Andrea Bertoli.Advertise with CleanTechnica to get your company in front of millions of monthly readers.The content produced by this site is for entertainment purposes only. Opinions and comments published on this site may not be sanctioned by, and do not necessarily represent the views of Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc., its owners, sponsors, affiliates, or subsidiaries.CleanTechnica is the #1 cleantech-focused news & analysis website in the US & the world, focusing primarily on electric cars, solar energy, wind energy, & energy storage.© 2019   Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc.