The pricey plug-in hybrid is a little retro and a whole lot of fun to drive.Provided you don’t spit it out after a few seconds, to pop a turkisk peppar into your mouth is to commit yourself to a beguiling sensory journey. The candy’s elements—licorice, salt, and, no joke, ammonium chloride—hit your tongue, throat, and nose in various combinations as the black morsel dissolves in your mouth over the course of a minute or two. It’s very much like eating a bouillon cube produced at a Superfund site, and a little bit like driving the Polestar 1. That is to say, it’s unsettling and Scandinavian. And after it’s done, you want to do it again.As its name indicates, the grand touring coupe is the first vehicle from a revived Polestar. The company used to build race-ready cars for Volvo; the Swedish automaker revamped it two years ago to focus on making performance-oriented electric cars. But its debut product is something of an oddball.First off, the Polestar 1 is a plug-in hybrid. Historically, plug-in hybrids have been stepping-stone cars, half-measure predecessors to cars that ditch the internal combustion engine altogether. These days, they’re passé: Batteries are cheap enough that most automakers are focusing on fully electric rides. Moreover, the Polestar 1 is a funky plug-in, with an unusually big battery for the setup (34 kWh, good for nearly 80 miles of range). And its 2-liter engine comes with both a supercharger and a turbocharger, a rare combination (though one not unfamiliar to Volvo).The interior is a sophisticated example of Scandinavian design, all a light gray, punctuated by the burnt orange seat belts.Then there’s the $155,000 base price, which calls to mind Tesla’s approach: Start your fledgling brand by building expensive vehicles in small numbers before moving to cheaper, mass market offerings. Moreover, it’s not a new design—Polestar pulled Volvo’s 2013 Concept Coupe out from the crypt to be the basis for this car.The real weird thing about the old-timey powertrain, high price, and old design, though, is that they’re unnecessary. Polestar didn’t need to make its first car a plug-in hybrid that sold for six figures to get its business off the ground. Just look at the Polestar 2, which will follow this car into the market next year. The 2, a nearly finished product, is an all-new, fully electric hatchback. It’s good for nearly 300 miles of range at a $63,000 base price (with a $45,000 version to follow), and a potentially compelling alternative to the Tesla Model 3.The reasoning behind the Polestar 1 turns out to be somewhat highfalutin. “People need a symbol,” says Polestar CEO Thomas Ingenlath. It’s a halo car, drawing attention to this new company the way the Corvette makes Chevy look good to buyers more interested in a Malibu.And if the idea is to capture eyeballs, the Polestar 1 makes a lot of sense. The sleek coupe with big haunches stands out in a field increasingly dominated by SUVs (see: Lamborghini Urus) and crossovers. With two doors and a backseat best left to children and terriers, this is a grand touring car. The sort of car fancy folks use to mosey between their homes in the Alps and on the Riviera. Provided they pack light. The battery sitting over the rear axle cuts the trunk to a measly 4.4 cubic feet.It is also, Ingenlath says, “a day-to-day electric car that can be driven like hell.” He’s right. The Polestar 1 produces 619 horsepower and 738 pound-feet of torque, almost enough to make you ignore its heft—5,170 pounds. Instead of switching between electric and combustion power, the complex powertrain smoothly meshes the two, and in the sporty setting takes you from 0 to 60 mph in 4.2 seconds. The non-adjustable suspension is a bit stiff for San Francisco’s potholes, but once out of the city and atop winding Skyline Boulevard, the combined work of the motors, turbocharger, and supercharger ensure that every flex of the right foot results in a burst of power. You can run the car on just electricity, but that’s best left for easy-going driving. On their own, the motors struggle to move the car’s weight with haste.The big, 21-inch wheels sport a nice spot of orange on the brake calipers.The interior is a sophisticated example of Scandinavian design, all a light gray, punctuated by the burnt orange seat belts. The panoramic glass roof makes the coupe feel open, and the infotainment system, provided by Volvo, works well. In that small trunk, Polestar’s designers used a transparent bit of plexiglass that shows off the cables carrying 400 volts from the battery to the motors.Most impressively, the Polestar 1 disproves the idea that adding an engine to an electric car requires compromising. Still, Polestar doesn’t plan on making any more plug-in hybrids. Starting with the Polestar 2, it’s all electric. So this first car will remain its own bit of fun, one that leaves a curious but not unpleasant aftertaste in your mouth.WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.More From WIREDContact© 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18) and Your California Privacy Rights. Wired may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices