eMarketer forecasts that consumers in Germany will spend nearly 10 hours consuming media every day this year. These users are also increasing their time spent with digital activities, but many of them—especially older age groups—still tune in to broadcast radio and TV, as well as read traditional print newspapers. 






 


        Copyright © 2019 eMarketer Inc.
      
.

How much time will adults in Germany spend with digital media in 2019?eMarketer estimates that the average daily time spent with digital media will be 3 hours, 53 minutes (For simplicity's sake, our style for expressing such a number in the text that follows will be 3:53.) this year—a 4-minute gain from 2018.How does digital time spent compare with TV time?Since 2017, adults in Germany have typically devoted more time to the internet than to TV, and that gap is widening. eMarketer estimates that the average time spent with TV per day in 2019 will be 3:33—20 minutes less than online time.What's happening to traditional media consumption?Traditional formats—TV, radio and print—still maintain substantial audiences in Germany, partly because the country's population skews older. That said, time spent with these media will decline slightly over our forecast period.What is the fastest-growing component of total media time?Time spent with nonvoice activities on mobile devices will increase faster than any other type of media consumption this year. Mobile video viewing and social networking will continue to boost mobile time.Is the total time spent with media still rising?Yes. But the overall time that adults spend with major media is now barely increasing year over year. Instead, digital media activities are replacing nondigital ones.eMarketer has put together a detailed report, Germany Time Spent With Media 2019,  which contains their latest estimates and forecasts for time spent with media in Germany, including traditional and digital platforms and devices. It also analyzes some key trends shaping those forecasts.Topics discussed in this report include:In full, this report contains: