Esto también se puede leer en español.Don't show this againPlus: The best prices on the 13-inch MacBook Pro, Apple Watch Series 4 and Beats headphones.Best Buy is taking the pole position on a number of standout Black Friday deals. At the moment, it's the only retailer selling the brand new 10.2-inch iPad for $250. That's the best price we expect to see this year. (Note that you need to be a member of Best Buy's My Best Buy reward program -- it's free -- to see some of its sale prices, including that one.)And the floodgates are now officially open on a bunch of other Apple devices, including the 13-inch MacBook Pro, the Apple Watch Series 4, Beats headphones and more. Warning: If you're shopping for a new MacBook Air, skip Best Buy's deal and head straight to Amazon, which is offering up the newest model in space gray for $800 (when you opt for no-rush shipping). That's a $300 discount on Apple's list price -- and the all-time lowest price on this particular model -- and just a spectacular deal all-round.  Otherwise, before you check out the top Best Buy deals, a few reminders:  With that firmly established, here are the best of the Best Buy early Black Friday sales we're seeing now.   We know that the Apple Watch Series 3 will sell between $129 and $159 at Walmart (and likely elsewhere) starting on Wednesday. But Best Buy continues to offer the all-time lowest prices on the Apple Watch Series 4. All four models are currently selling at their all-time lowest prices. It's very similar to the newer Series 5 model except that it lacks the always-on watch face.  Only Best Buy has it now for $250. (Amazon had this price briefly, and Walmart will catch up on Nov. 27.) The brand-new 10.2-inch iPad has a larger screen and more Pro-level features than its predecessor. This is hands-down the best iPad deal going.
    
    
                            Read our 10.2-inch iPad review.
    
    Best Buy (and Amazon) are discounting the speedy MacBook Pro with Touch Bar, which came out in July, by $200. (The step-up version, with the 256GB SSD, is also on sale.) These are good prices on great machines.
    
    
                            Read our 13-inch MacBook Pro preview.
    
    Sure, they were down to $130 earlier -- but $150 is still a dynamite price on a well-built pair of wireless headphones that sound good and are comfortable to wear. The battery life is best in class.
    
    
                            Read our Beats Solo3 review.
    
    We think these are the best Beats headphones. And this is a pretty good price.
    
    
                            Read our Beats Studio3 review.
    
    Walmart has been selling these headphones for about $120 -- a massive $80 discount off the $200 list price. Now, Best Buy takes it a step further by cutting the price to $90.
    
    
                            Read our Powerbeats3 review.
    
    They're back: Best Buy again has the JLabs JBuds Air on sale for $30. They normally retail for $50. JLabs makes a lot of true wireless earphones and this is its most affordable -- and frankly, the only one I'd buy. It's a decent set of true wireless earbuds that's a relative bargain at $30.
    
    
    
    We saw this deal last year but it's still a good one: Sony's micro Bluetooth speaker, the SRS-XB01, is on sale for $15 at Best Buy.
    
    
                            Read our Sony SRS-XB01 review.
    
    The M-Series Quantum delivers excellent picture quality, with deep black levels, accurate color and very good 4K HDR performance. And its smart system is phone-friendly, with Google Cast and Apple AirPlay control.Walmart is selling this exact set for $100 more and the the 50-inch model for $467 -- but that's the M7 series, which doesn't deliver quite the same level of picture quality as that M8. It's still a great price, however. 
    
    
    
    We love the UE Boom 2 -- a compact, durable wireless Bluetooth speaker that plays loud and sounds good. It's stain-resistant, shock-resistant and fully waterproof. Battery life is a strong 15 hours, and it can be paired with a second UE speaker for stereo sound.
    
    
                            Read our UE Boom 2 review.
    
    This entry-level configuration has entry-level components (Intel Core i3 processor, 4GB of RAM, 128GB SSD -- but you're still getting the best Windows two-in-one tablet, with the Type Cover thrown in, for $699. This package was down to $600 last week before going up to $649 -- but it's still a fantastic deal at this price. Note that Best Buy also has a good deal going on a more robust configuration of the Surface Pro 6.
    
    
                            Read our Surface Pro 7 preview.
    
    Best Buy has a decent price on the previous version of the Surface Pro. You get a robust configuration that includes an Intel Core i5 processor, 8GB of RAM and a 256GB SSD. Note that this deal does not include the Type Cover.
    
    
                            Read our Surface Pro 6 review.
    
    This Arlo Pro 2 kit consists of four outdoor-friendly wireless security cameras that can operate without the need to be plugged in to an AC outlet. The Arlo Smart cloud plan, which costs extra, will send you alerts when the cameras see a person (versus a car or your neighbor's cat) -- and maintain motion detection zones for added security.
    
    
    
    The Dyson Cinetic Big Ball Animal Allergy vacuum does its job without a filter -- and maintains suction over the long haul because of it. It's great with fine particles and bested the competition at deep cleaning. Our only beef is that it's too pricey -- and Best Buy has taken care of that. The price was previously as low as $300, but even at $400 you're making a significant saving.
    
    
                            Read our Dyson Cinetic review.
    
    Best Buy has discounted the most deluxe 11-inch iPad Pro model by $200. You get 1TB of storage -- and all of the other great iPad Pro features -- for $1,350. Note that you need to be a member of the retailer's My Best Buy program to get this sale price.
    
    
                            Read our 11-inch iPad Pro review.
    
    The unique porcelain Ember Mug and saucer kit keeps coffee at the perfect temperature -- technically, 130 degrees -- for a little more than an hour. It doesn't sound like much, but, trust me: It's life-changing. It's usually a tough sell, over-priced as it is. But Best Buy has the 10-ounce model for $50 and the 14-ounce version for $65 -- today only. Buy buy buy!
    
    
                            Read our take on the Ember Mug.
    
    We reviewed the similar Legion Y545 and appreciated its edgy design and great components for the price, andBest Buy has a nice deal on a superior configuration. This model features a 17.3-inch display, Intel Core i7 processor, 16GB of RAM, Nvidia GeForce GTX 1660 Ti graphics card and jumbo 1TB SSD. If you're looking for something more entry-level, check out Walmart's deal on the Y540.
    
    
                            Read our Lenovo Legion Y545 review.
    
    We've long been fans of Lenovo's flagship Yoga laptops -- and the C940, which debuted in January, is one of a handful of Intel's Project Athena devices designed to make it perform more like a phone. The C940 wakes instantly from sleep and has a fingerprint reader that works in a second and Wi-Fi that connects just as fast. This model features a 400-nit FHD-resolution and up to 17.5 hours of battery life.
    
    
                            Read our Lenovo Yoga C940 preview.
    
    The Gram 17 weighs less than most other smaller laptops. It also has an amazing battery life. In fact, its 12 hours of run time made it one of the the top 10 laptops with the longest battery lives we've ever tested. Normally, it's too pricey for us to recommend without qualification. Best Buy's discount makes the case much more straightforward.
    
    
                            Read our LG Gram 17 review.
    
    Best Buy has Bose's SoundLink Revolve on sale for $120, which is the lowest price we've seen for it. This model is smaller than the SoundLink Revolve Plus, but it's a good compact Bluetooth speaker.
    
    
                            Read our Bose SoundLink Revolve review.
    
    If you're less inclined to buy from Apple, Garmin's rugged fitness watches are great. The Fenix 5X cost $700 when it came out in 2017 -- now, Best Buy has it for $300. I've been using Garmin's lower-end Forerunner 245 and I like it a lot. The model on sale here includes all of its fitness tracking functions and adds an altimeter and barometer. Plus, you get topographic US maps, routable cycling maps for turn-by-turn navigation and a scratch-resistant sapphire lens.
    
    
                            Read our Garmin Fenix 5X preview.
    
    Apple sliced $50 off the price of the HomePod back in April. But Best Buy has picked up the knife for some additional trimming. This is the lowest price we've ever seen on Apple's smart speaker.
    
    
                            Read our Apple HomePod review.
    
    Check it out here.      Originally published earlier this month. Updated with our favorite deals now highlighted at the top.      Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.