
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
With each Pixel release, it seems like Google is met with some sort of criticism. The Pixel 2 XL had a trash display, the Pixel 3 series had bad RAM management, and the Pixel 4 has become notorious for poor battery life.A lot of Pixel 4 reviews have shed the phone in a negative light, but taking a gander through our AC forums, many of our members are quite happy with the phone.Here's what some of them have to say.With all the negative reviews/threads surrounding this phone I felt i should do my part and stop by to mention how much i am enjoying this phone.
I have always used Android phones, I owned the first Pixel XL on Verizon when it came out. I never planned on buying the Pixel, I was kind of forced into it with the exploding Note 7 event. I wasn't too thrilled at first, I had been using the...I feel the same way as you. Ever since I got the Nexus 6p and experienced stick Android since then I upgraded every year to the pixel XL, pixel 2 xl, pixel 3 XL and now the pixel 4 XL. The way things are going I can see myself continuing to stick with Google and the pixel line up. I enjoy it and my XL 4 is averaging 6hours to 6hrs and 40 mins with about 5-10% left.ditto. The Pixel 4 XL is an exceptional device that is not perfect, but probably the best android device out there.I love my Pixel 4 XL. I have only had it a few days and so far for me it is the best phone I have owned. I was always a Samsung person. Mainly for the excellent cameras that they had on the phones. I had been hearing about the cameras on the Pixel phones and wanted to give them a try. I did an early upgrade from my year-old Note 9 to the Pixel 4 XL and all I can say is WOW. This phone is...What about you? Are you happy with the Pixel 4?Join the conversation in the forums!
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
2019 isn't over yet, so that means that we need another high profile phone to leak out. Well, here comes Samsung and the Galaxy S11+ to save us with new renders to show off its massive camera bump.Disney+ just added the "Continue Watching" section to its app, one of the most requested features since it launched.Black Friday is right around the corner, and that means massive discounts on all sorts of Android phones. Do you plan on picking one up during this year's shopping season?The Pixel 4 XL is a big, beautiful phone. Keep it protected without covering its design with these stellar clear cases.