Basketball star LeBron James has said that the California wildfires forced his family to evacuate their home in western Los Angeles and drive about all night to find shelter."Man these LA [fires] aren't no joke. Had to emergency evacuate my house and I've been driving around with my family trying to get rooms. No luck so far!" James tweeted at 3:50 a.m. local time on Monday.A series of deadly wildfires are currently burning throughout California, including eight in the greater Los Angeles region. Affected regions in Los Angeles include the Pacific Palisades, Saddleridge, and the area around the Getty Center.The video below shows the extent of the Getty Fire as of Monday:James' tweet came shortly after the Los Angeles Police Department tweeted a mandatory evacuation order for residents living west of Los Angeles' 405 freeway, who may be affected by the Getty Fire.James' $23 million home in Brentwood, a wealthy neighborhood in western Los Angeles, is within the area affected by the Getty Fire.He bought the house in 2017 shortly before moving to the LA Lakers from the Cleveland Cavaliers.








        A Google Street View image of James' home in Brentwood, Los Angeles.
      
Google Maps

James later tweeted that his family had caught a lucky break, finding a place to spend the night."Finally found a place to accommodate us! Crazy night man!" James tweeted at 4:11 a.m.He then urged people living nearby to "pretty please get to safety ASAP."Ninety-seven percent of the Saddleridge fire has been contained as of October 23, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.The Pacific Palisades fire has been classed as a brush fire spanning 42 acres, of which 75% has been contained, the Los Angeles Fire Department said.Gavin Newsom, California's governor, declared a statewide emergency on Sunday night as Sonoma County, located north of San Francisco, continued to battle the Kincade Fire which has ripped through over 54,000 acres of land.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
