Camila Cabello recently admitted to Jimmy Fallon that she lost the pencil she stole from Prince William and Kate Middleton while visiting Kensington Palace in October.Now, the royal pencil's whereabouts have finally been revealed, as BBC One radio host Greg James said he used it to vote in the UK general election on Wednesday."The famous pencil got a run out this evening... (this is the actual one Camila stole)" James wrote on Instagram.
The famous pencil got a run out this evening...(this is the actual one Camila stole)A post shared by  Greg James (@greg_james) on Dec 12, 2019 at 11:19am PSTDec 12, 2019 at 11:19am PST
 During an interview with James on BBC Radio One last month, Cabello said he "triple doggy dared" her to steal the pencil shortly before the pair met William and Kate at Radio One's Teen Heroes of 2019 event at the palace. However, after James told palace staff what Cabello had done, she said she still refused to give up the item."I was like 'oh my god' and I put it in my mom's purse and my mom was like 'no we have to give it back, we have to give back the pencil.' And I was like 'no, he triple doggy dared me,'" she said.
Radio 1’s Teen Heroes of 2019 visited The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge at Kensington Palace earlier this month, along with chart-topping superstar Camila Cabello and BBC Radio 1 DJs Clara Amfo and Greg James. Now in its tenth year, @bbcradio1’s Teen Awards is the biggest teen event in the pop music calendar and shines a light on some of the UK’s most inspirational teens, seeing them crowned Teen Heroes of 2019 in front of an audience of 14-17 year-olds. This is the fourth consecutive year that Radio 1’s Teen Heroes have been honoured with an invitation to the Palace. The ten finalists were greeted by The Duke and Duchess, who praised them for their inspirational work and their dedication to helping others. #R1TeenAwardsA post shared by  Kensington Palace (@kensingtonroyal) on Oct 22, 2019 at 2:35am PDTOct 22, 2019 at 2:35am PDT
 However, in a later interview with Jimmy Fallon, the performer said she had no idea where the pencil had ended up."There is a royal pencil out there somewhere on this Earth and we don't know where it is,"  she said."It's yellow and it has a tip and you can write with it and it's got some royal magical energy to it that only people with the seventh sense can see."Who knows whether James thought the pencil's "magical energy" would rub off on his vote, or it would just be a good prank — but at least we now know what a real-life royal pencil looks like.Read more:Camila Cabello says she lost the pencil she stole from Kensington Palace, which could be worth thousands of dollarsCamila Cabello says she stole a pencil from Kensington Palace, and Will and Kate respondedCamila Cabello says she and Shawn Mendes didn't kiss during their steamy AMAs performance because 'people are expecting it'Our Royal Insider Facebook group is the best place for up-to-date news and announcements about the British royal family, direct from Insider's royal reporters. Join here.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
