The Google Stadia felt like a miracle the moment I loaded Destiny onto a Google Pixel phone. Sitting in a lounge chair on a rooftop, I was shocked to see that I was able to move my old Hunter around in glorious 60 frames-per-second combat. On a phone!But moments are fleeting, and latency on Google Stadia — the time difference between your finger pressing a button and the game reacting to it — lasts longer, and leaves a more lasting impression. In fact, it sometimes renders games unplayable. The service can and will likely improve, and already has during the early review period. But that’s the key difference between buying Stadia and just investing in gaming hardware. Google is selling a service — and services can be unreliable.When played on a browser or LCD 4K TV, horrendous latency plagued singleplayer and multiplayer games, giving a cinematic game like Shadow of the Tomb Raider the feel of an avant garde college grad project, replete with buggy, quick cuts. Precision shots were impossible in Destiny 2. Even walking in a straight line was a challenge in the otherwise lovely indie game Gylt, the console’s only exclusive title.I should stress that all of this happened while playing Stadia via the Chromecast Ultra, which comes packed with the Founder’s or Premiere Edition consoles (that some won’t receive soon due to shipping delays), or through Google’s own Chrome browser.On the phone, however, a totally different story emerges. While playing Destiny 2 in 60 fps on a Google Pixel 3a XL over a WiFi connection, there was almost no blurriness and barely any latency. Barring a few noticeable but quick skips during play, the images produced were fast and sharp on the phone’s 2160x1080 resolution screen.These tests were conducted with my WiFi at home, which gave me anywhere from 45 to 55 Mbps download speeds, well above the 35 Mbps Google says should give me 60 frames-per-second movement in 4K resolution. They were also conducted on The Washington Post’s Gigabit Ethernet and WiFi service. In all cases, the phone outperformed the experience on browsers and TVs.As of Monday evening, the service in my home became notably better, although gameplay still experienced some stutter. Ahead of launch, Stadia warned reviewers that playing on a Chromecast Ultra at work is not supported, as “Chromecast does not support WPA2-Enterprise networks. Stadia’s TV experience with Chromecast is designed for home networks where the Stadia controller and Chromecast are on the same Local Area Network.”However, our work tests that displayed heavy latency and input lag were performed on a Chrome browser through an Ethernet-wired laptop in the newsroom, as well as over the newsroom WiFi on the Pixel. A Stadia spokesperson said corporate networks may not play well with the service today. “Corporate networks also tend to be congested due to a high volume of activity, which is counter-productive to ensuring you have a smooth gaming experience where processing happens in real time,” they added. We tested six titles before Tuesday’s launch: Destiny 2, Red Dead Redemption 2, Mortal Kombat 11, Gylt and Kine. Destiny 2, a 2017 game, is Stadia’s launch centerpiece, and the only other game included with the $9.99-a-month Stadia Pro subscription besides last-minute addition Samurai Shodown. In a last-minute effort to draw more gamers, over the weekend Stadia announced that it would be expanding its launch lineup from 12 to 22 games, many of them over a year old.The value of playing Destiny 2 on Stadia comes from Bungie’s cross-saving feature, which allowed me to import my PlayStation 4 character into the Stadia version. More than a novelty, it’s a convenient and efficient way to pick up and grind out a few levels in low-stakes gameplay while riding in a car. And you could even get in a few multiplayer rounds from the comfort of your bed.In fact, Stadia’s value is at its peak with a game like Destiny 2 — and really no other launch title we tested. Red Dead’s shooting and Mortal Kombat’s ... well ... combat all functioned as expected, at least whenever input lag and streaming latency weren’t an issue. But they’re all otherwise the same old games, just sometimes more fuzzy and less functional as they were years ago.Fortnite and the new Call of Duty: Modern Warfare would have been two great releases to showcase Stadia’s versatility. While the Stadia isn’t ideal for competitive play, the games’ progression systems don’t require high-level skills. One clear, compelling use case for a Stadia player is the ability to progress in a Fortnite season pass from the neighborhood library’s computer.Another disappointing discovery: Games on the Stadia do not feature the graphical options offered on PC releases. Players won’t be able to toggle resolutions, visual or texture effects or frames per second. When it comes to presentation, players are left at the mercy of developers and Google’s servers.Reviewing Stadia as a service feels a bit like reviewing YouTube. The content isn’t quite there yet, and the service isn’t great either. But this model is presented as an intentional choice.“It’s a living, breathing service,” Jack Buser, Stadia’s director for games and business development, stressed in an interview with The Post. “The Stadia you see on day one will constantly evolve over time. We’ll be adding new technology, new features, new games. Over time, it’s going to grow, we’ll support more screens, because we’re not limited. We’re actually able to upgrade the technology within our data centers without having the customer buy new hardware.”Dexit or no, Sword and Shield inch closer to dreams of a grand Pokemon adventureGoogle promised to commit to Stadia, mentioning other successful products like Gmail and the Play Store to engender some faith. But it’s also hard to ignore the literal digital graveyard of past Google efforts. A website called KilledByGoogle.com lists 156 services, 18 apps and 16 hardware ideas scrapped by the company.So here’s a four-word review on the Premiere Edition in 2019: It’s not worth it. We can’t guarantee it’ll work well with your connection, given the wild variable instability we experienced at The Post even with high-speed broadband capabilities. As reported widely, a host of promised features aren’t available at launch.The controller, for what it’s worth, is excellent, a pleasure to hold. But the triggers feel a bit looser than they need to be, and future Stadia users will probably be better off using any controllers they already own.Premiere Editions are still available online for $129 which comes with a controller, a Chromecast Ultra ($69) and a 3-month subscription to Stadia Pro, which gives you Destiny 2 and Samurai Shodown for free. Besides the Chromecast Ultra packed in with the box, Stadia is playable on Pixel phones and tablets running the Chrome operating system. Other devices, like the iPhone, will be available later.The other games like Red Dead Redemption 2? You still need to buy them separately, albeit at a discounted price. Red Dead Redemption 2 is the best title at launch, but it’s over a year old and still sells at the launch price of $60. It’s hard to imagine the player who really wanted to play Red Dead Redemption 2 and lacked the resources to play it a year ago, but who would pony up $129 to play it on Stadia today.Stadia’s base access will launch next year, and it’s only then that Stadia’s full potential might be seen: As an online storefront to access the latest games immediately. There’s novelty and value in that.Stadia is absolutely paving a new sort of information highway for gaming. My advice today is to stay in your current lane until they finish that work.Read more:Pokemon is everywhere now. Long live Pokemon.People are investing millions into League of Legends franchises. Will the bet pay off?We are living in Hideo Kojima’s dystopian nightmare. Can he save us?Free daily updates delivered just for youBy signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy PolicyFree daily updates delivered just for youBy signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy