
            Insider Inc. receives a commission from our affiliate partners when you buy through our links, but our reporting and recommendations are always independent and objective. Learn more.The size, shape, construction, and style of a wine glass can dramatically alter how the wine will taste. The best overall wine glass for everyday use is the Libbey 4 Piece Signature Kentfield Grande Wine Set.I remember the first time I bought wine glasses. I was 25 years old, had just moved into my own Manhattan studio, and truly believed that this purchase marked my arrival as a full-fledged adult. I selected a set of six wide-bowled glasses at Crate & Barrel for one reason: I thought they were beautiful.That set served me well. I remember one of them breaking dramatically during a party that first year, but several of them lasted for more than a decade. Into these glasses, I poured red and white wine, as well as the occasional champagne toast. Since then I have learned a great deal more about wine, as well as the importance of using different glasses for different wines. And it's not just about etiquette. The size, shape, and construction of a wine glass can dramatically alter the tasting experience.There are dozens of different specialized wine glasses, but most glasses are grouped into one of two categories: red or white wine glasses.In general, red wine glasses are taller and have a bigger bowl than white wine glasses. There are several reasons for this, but mostly, the wider opening of the glass allows red wines to breathe or to oxidate — and ultimately taste smoother. Red wine glasses can be held by the bowl or the stem. White wines, on the other hand, do better in a glass with a smaller bowl and narrower rim because it helps to preserve the cooler temperature.









        Riedel
      


There are several different design and construction elements to consider when choosing a glass. According to Williams-Sonoma, some of the most important are the size and shape of the bowl, the stem, the rim and whether it is made of crystal or glass.  We've selected wine glasses that will work with any wine you choose — red or white— as well as specialty glasses for both red and white wines. Read on to learn more about our wine glass picks. Updated by Caitlin Petreycik on 11/12/2019: Updated prices, links, and formatting. Libbey started out in 1818 as the New England Glass Company. Today, the Ohio-based company produces a wide range of tableware products, but its glassware remains top notch. In 2015, Libbey introduced a new state-of-the-art process for making glassware from the furnace to forming to finishing, which the company claims produces "the most brilliant and strongest soda lime glassware to be produced in the US."The attractive, dishwasher-safe Libbey Signature Kentfield glasses feature a laser-cut rim, as well as a pulled stem and a reinforced flat foot for extra stability. The tulip-shaped bowl makes it an ideal choice for both red and white wines, so you can drink whatever you want in these glasses.To sweeten the pot, all of Libbey's glassware is protected by a 25-year no-chip guarantee.  Libbey will replace or refund the price of a chipped glass if you return it to the dealer or distributor.Across the web, professional reviewers, including those at The Wirecutter and The Spruce say that Libbey wine glasses are an extraordinary value and perfect for everyday wine consumption. We highly recommend them as an affordable option for people who want to get into drinking wine from well-crafted glasses.Pros: Extraordinary value, ideal for both red and white wine, 25-year no-chip guarantee, easy to cleanCons: Slightly thicker glassBased in Austria, Riedel is a family-run company that was established in 1756. It is still one of the world's best-known producers of wine glasses. While Riedel offers wine glasses in a wide range of price points, the Riedel Vivant Collection is an ideal way to introduce yourself to the company's high-quality wares without breaking the bank.Made of lead-free Tyrol crystal, these thin and attractive 12.5-oz glasses can be used for virtually any occasion. The company says they are dishwasher safe, but many enthusiasts note that they choose to wash them by hand because of their delicate composition. You get four glasses in a set, which is a very good deal, considering these glasses come from such a well-renowned company. That said, we found several online customer reviews mentioning that the glasses are just too thin and subject to frequent breakage. However, most experts agree that the thinner and finer the wine glass, the better the flavor, so it's a trade-off.Around the web, professional reviewers, including those at The Wirecutter, The Wine Spectator, and The Kitchn name the Riedel Vivant and other Riedel glasses as the best wine glasses you can buy. All of these reviewers say the Vivant line offers extraordinary value for quality glasses.Pros: Affordable, good value, attractive, thin, clear, enhances wine flavorCons: Frequent breakageRiedel makes our guide once again with its Veritas Cabernet/Merlot Glasses. These elegant crystal glasses will feel good in your hand and bring out the bouquet in your red wine.Composed of leaded-crystal, these 22-oz. glasses are machine blown and very delicate. Taller and lighter than the glasses in the Vinum collection, these dishwasher safe glasses arrive in an attractive gift box. You get two in a set: one for Cabernet and another for Merlot. They may be more expensive than the picks in our guide, but buyers and experts alike say they're well worth the cost.While most reviewers love the feel of the Riedel glasses in their hands, as well as the way the glass makes the wine taste, we came across a handful of negative comments from buyers claiming that the glasses are just too thin and fragile, so they break easily. As we've said before, that's to be expected with fine wine glasses. Thinner glass makes for better flavor, so it's a trade off you have to make for a great wine glass.Around the web, professional reviewers, including those at The Wirecutter and Wine Spectator approve of the glasses' light weight and beauty, as well as the flavor of the wine served in the glasses.Pros: High-quality crystal, beautiful design, thin, clearCons: Sometimes too fragile, expensiveFor a casual summer party or a simple dinner at home, the Zeppoli Royal Stemless Wine Glasses are perfect. These glasses have broad appeal because they are versatile, wide-bowled, and can hold 15 oz. of either white or red wine.The Royal stemless glasses are made of high-quality, durable, shatter-resistant glass. Note that it is shatter-resistant, not shatterproof. Several customer reviews noted that the glasses did, indeed, break. A modern, ergonomic design provides a good fit for most hands and the flat bottom lends an extra layer of stability. While not as elegant as more upscale, stemmed glassware, these glasses are perfect for everyday or outdoor use. The set of four arrives in an attractive, black gift box.One particularly helpful buyer review mentioned that the glasses were perfect for pinot noir, merlot, and even heady, intense Malbecs, adding that the shape of the glasses really intensifies the fruit aromas. Across the web, professional reviewers, including those at The Spruce and Wine Coolers point out the many benefits of these versatile glasses.Pros: Modern look, durable, very affordable, easy to cleanCons: Somewhat thickThere's nothing like a glass of wine after a long day, but getting into the bottle can be a hassle without a good wine opener or corkscrew. That's why we've researched across the web to find the very best wine openers you can buy for any situation and on any budget. We've included electric wine openers, high-end handmade ones, your average corkscrew, and more. Here are our top picks: No matter how many apps you have on your phone or how many books you've read, buying a bottle of wine is never an easy process. With so many varietals and vineyards to choose from, how are you supposed to know if you'd prefer a Cabernet Franc to a Cabernet Sauvignon? Luckily, these days, all you need is an internet connection and a credit card to get top-notch, expertly-selected wines delivered straight to your doorstep. These are the best wine subscriptions you can sign up for: Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.