Is there such a thing as having too many credit cards? With so many cards offering enticing rewards and sign-up bonuses, you may be tempted to apply for one or two or more. But if you already have a few credit cards, you might be worried about overdoing it.There really isn’t a magic number of credit cards everyone should have. More credit cards could actually boost your credit score, which is important for getting loans, saving on insurance rates, and even getting a job. Having multiple cards can also be more risky. On the other hand, not having enough credit history can set you back. Here’s what you need to know.When the credit bureaus calculate your credit score, the number of credit cards you have is actually only a minor part of the equation. As Investopedia explains [emphasis mine]:Your payment history makes up 35% of your FICO score, while your total debt owed amounts to 30% of your final FICO score. Making up the final 15%, 10% and 10% of your FICO score are the length of your credit history, any new credit that you have taken on, and the type of credit you have used.When calculating your individual FICO score, the number of credit cards that you have will influence the smallest weighted category: the type of credit that you use.The number and type of credit accounts you have—not just credit cards, but things like auto loans, mortgages, student loans, and store revolving accounts—make up 10% of your score. You could have one or two cards or 22, but what’s way more important is if you pay your bills on time and how you’re utilizing your credit.Don’t believe the myth of the single credit score. You actually have hundreds of scores! Don’t…The average number of credit cards Americans own is two to three, according to The Motley Fool. Last year, FICO found that people with high credit scores (800+) tended to have an average of three open cards. This could be because people with higher credit scores are able to open more credit cards, though. People who chase travel rewards in particular tend to have a great many cards open at a time (though not as much as the record holder in the Guinness Book of World Records, who has 1,562 cards).A little less than one-third of employers who employ background checks on job applicants check…While there can be negative aspects to owning multiple cards besides just your credit score (more on that in a bit), generally speaking, your credit score won’t go down just because you have several cards. The exception is if you’re opening and closing a bunch of cards at once (“churning” cards) to maximize the rewards you earn from various cards.The number of credit cards you have does make a difference for one of the biggest factors: Your total debt owed, as a percentage of your credit limit. Since every new credit card increases your total credit limit, adding another card decreases your debt-to-credit ratio (as long as you don’t add more debt). For example, if you owe $500 on one credit card with a $1,000 limit (50% utilization) and open a new credit card with a $4,000 limit, that would make your overall utilization 10% ($500 out of $5,000). And that’s much better in lenders’ and credit scoring agencies’ eyes.Of course, you could also ask your credit card company to increase your limit to $5,000, instead of getting a new card. This would have the same effect of improving your score without the minor hit you get for opening a new account—plus you only have to manage one credit card. Generally, a new credit inquiry will reduce your score by about five points for about six months.How long does it take for your credit score to rebound from a “soft inquiry?” That’s what Tiffany…Many people use credit cards not just for the convenience but for the rewards (although finance experts don’t agree on whether chasing rewards is worth it). You can use one card that has a high cash back for gas and groceries, for example, and a second one that rewards you with travel points when you dine out or travel. This maximizes the rewards you can get.Besides those rewards, valuable features like price protection, travel insurance and car rental insurance might convince you to select a particular card. The fringe benefits, like travel credits, free checked bags on airlines, and airport lounge access, can also be compelling reasons to open a new card.So far it seems like you should go ahead and apply for the additional cards, right? Not so fast. Although simply having more credit cards doesn’t negatively affect your credit score, there are other considerations.Credit card rewards programs have become hugely popular. And many of us use them without a hitch.…First, don’t rush in to open a bunch of cards every time you see attractive offers. Although opening new accounts, as mentioned above, tends to only cause a temporary drop of a few points, the new cards will also reduce the average age of your credit history (how long you’ve had your credit accounts). That’s not as significant as how you well you pay your debt either, but if you’re going to be in the market for a major loan soon, it’s something to consider, as these small hits can in turn reduce the interest rate you’re eligible to get.To prevent credit card companies from potentially closing your accounts due to inactivity, you’d need to regularly use each of your cards—when you have more than a few, that can get unwieldy. You don’t want your account to get closed, because that could greatly impact your score since it reduces your overall credit limit and could reduce the total age of your account history.Also, even with automatic payments, it’s just harder to keep track of dozens of cards.If you’re not careful, you could end up overspending (especially if you’re chasing rewards and trying to meet minimum spend requirements). And overspending could catapult you into a cycle of struggling to pay your monthly statement in full, and if balances start building up, that’ll definitely reduce your credit score.However, if you’re responsible with your spending, pay your bills in full each month, and keep your balances low, additional cards won’t likely hurt and they could even help your credit. How many is right for you really depends on your comfort handling and managing them.This post was originally published in 2014 and was updated on 11/20/2019 to reflect more current information.