  Gaga rose to fame with pop hits like "Just Dance" and "Poker Face," but she's proven to be an impressive actress as well. Gaga took her acting career to new heights by starring alongside Bradley Cooper in a 2018 remake of "A Star Is Born."The 33-year-old's role as singer-songwriter Ally earned her recognition at this year's major award shows. She kicked off 2019 by winning the Golden Globe for best original song for a motion picture for "Shallow" (from "A Star Is Born") and earned a nomination for best performance by an actress in a drama motion picture. Gaga went on to earn two SAG Award nominations and five total Grammy Award nominations. At the latter award show, she went home with three trophies: best pop solo performance for "Joanne (Where Do You Think You're Goin'?)," best pop duo/group performance for "Shallow," and best song written for visual media for "Shallow."The entertainer also won her first Oscar. "Shallow" beat out the competition to nab the award for best original song and Gaga was nominated for best leading actress.Aside from "A Star Is Born," Gaga continued her Las Vegas residency, which will end in 2020, and launched her own makeup line in September called Haus Laboratories. The collection (comprised of lip liners, gloss, and eyeliner, among other beauty products) was praised for its quality and sleek design. Gaga's also working on her sixth studio album and is set to star in a Ridley Scott-directed film about the Gucci family. She'll play Patrizia Reggiani, the ex-wife of Maurizio Gucci.  In February, siblings Nick Jonas, Joe Jonas, and Kevin Jonas returned to the spotlight as a band and released a catchy new song called "Sucker," which reached the No. 1 spot on pop music charts.Their accompanying music video for the track also gained plenty of attention for featuring all their partners: Priyanka Chopra (who wed Nick in December 2018), Sophie Turner (Joe's then fiancée and now wife after tying the knot in Las Vegas in May), and Danielle Jonas (Kevin's wife since 2009).The band also released an Amazon documentary called "Chasing Happiness," which took viewers through their rise to fame, complete with shocking revelations and heartfelt moments.In June, they released their fifth studio album called "Happiness Begins" and embarked on a tour with shows scheduled from August 2019 through February 2020. They also planned on releasing a memoir titled "Blood" in November 2019, but it has now been pushed back to March 17, 2020.The Jonas Brothers won an MTV Video Music Award for best pop video for "Sucker," plus two Teen Choice Awards for choice summer group and the decade award. The 17-year-old Los Angeles native wasn't completely unknown prior to this year ("Ocean Eyes" was her first big track), but her debut album titled "When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go?" added to her popularity. In April, she made history as the first artist born in the 2000s to have a No. 1 album on the Billboard 200 chart.Eilish's dark-pop sound and whisper-like vocals, heard in songs like "Bad Guy" and "Bury a Friend," set her apart from other musicians. The accompanying music videos for those two tracks also have a combined total of more than 900 million views. The singer also appeared at Coachella, made her "Saturday Night Live" debut with a trippy, gravity-defying performance, and embarked on a tour.In November, Eilish released a new track called "Everything I Wanted." She also got nominated for six Grammy Awards and made history as the youngest artist to be nominated in all of the show's top categories.Malek was praised for his performance in the 2018 film and was a popular face at 2019's major award shows. He won a Golden Globe, a SAG Award, and an Academy Award for his leading role in the biopic. At the award shows, the actor also went viral for introducing himself to Lady Gaga, getting his bow tie adjusted by the "Star Is Born" actress, and having an awkward onstage moment with Nicole Kidman. Malek also returned as computer hacker Elliot Alderson for the fourth and final season of USA's "Mr. Robot" and will be starring as the villain in the upcoming "James Bond" film called "No Time to Die." The movie hits theaters on April 8, 2020.  Grande skipped on attending the award show in February, but she won the award for best pop vocal album for 2018's "Sweetener." In 2019, she also won three awards at the MTV VMAs and two trophies at the Billboard Music Awards. The 26-year-old singer enjoyed success with "7 Rings" from her 2018 album "Thank U, Next" and headlined Coachella. She also became the first artist to occupy the top three spots on the Billboard 100 chart since The Beatles in 1964 with "7 Rings," "Break Up With Your Girlfriend, I'm Bored," and "Thank U, Next."Grande served as a coexecutive producer for the "Charlie's Angels" reboot soundtrack and lent her voice to a few songs, including "Don't Call Me Angel" with Miley Cyrus and Lana Del Rey. In addition, she teamed up with Lizzo for a remix of "Good as Hell" and kicked off her Sweetener World Tour in March 2019. Aside from going viral for his acts of kindness, the actor starred in several movies. He played the titular character in "John Wick: Chapter 3 — Parabellum," which earned a critics score of 90% and an audience rating of 86% on Rotten Tomatoes. The actor also had a scene-stealing role as himself in the Netflix comedy "Always Be My Maybe" and went on to become a meme. Reeves voiced motorcycle stuntman action figure Duke Caboom in "Toy Story 4" and fans were also thrilled that the actor was named the new face of Saint Laurent.Reeves even had a humble, priceless reaction to being labeled the "internet's boyfriend.""I've been what?" Reeves told Entertainment Weekly and PeopleTV in June. "That's wacky. The positivity's great. It was really special how 'John Wick' was embraced, and working on 'Always Be My Maybe,' great. Ali Wong and Randall Park [are] just really wonderful artists and people, and it was just really cool to get a chance to play with them."To celebrate his success and decades-long career, Reeves participated in a hand and footprint ceremony at Hollywood's TCL Chinese Theatre in May. It was also revealed that he'll reprise his role as Neo for a fourth "Matrix" movie. Next, you can catch Reeves playing a wise tumbleweed in "The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run," in theaters on May 22, 2020.Lopez showed no signs of slowing down in 2019. She performed a controversial Motown tribute at the Grammys, went on a strict 10-day no-carb, no-sugar challenge to prepare for her role as a stripper in "Hustlers," and learned how to pole dance for the film.In March, Lopez and former athlete Alex Rodriguez got engaged while on vacation in the Bahamas, after dating for two years.In July, the "Let's Get Loud" singer turned 50 and celebrated the milestone with a lavish party in Miami. Lopez starred in and produced "Hustlers," which hit theaters in September and was inspired by a New York magazine article written by Jessica Pressler. The film was praised by critics and fans, and Lopez has received tons of Oscar buzz for her performance as a stripper named Ramona.The entertainer also went viral for Lopez closing out Versace's Milan Fashion Week show by strutting down the runway in a dress nearly identical to the jungle one that she wore at the 2000 Grammys. In addition, it was revealed that she and Shakira will be co-headlining the 2020 Super Bowl halftime show in Miami, Florida. The film, released in May 2019, struck a balance between extravagant musical numbers and harrowing scenes addressing John's rocky history with sexuality, drugs, and alcohol. Egerton, who sang all his tracks in the movie, was praised for his portrayal of the music prodigy. "Rocketman" costar Bryce Dallas Howard also told Insider that Egerton's transformation was "unreal" and the actor captured John's "essence." It wouldn't be surprising if Egerton nabbed a few leading actor nominations for the upcoming award show season.  "Captain Marvel" hit theaters in March and was a significant moment for Marvel because it was the studio's first standalone movie centered on a female character. It also hit $1 billion at the box office. Months later, she appeared in "Endgame" to help the Avengers in their fight against Thanos. Outside of the MCU, the actress appeared in Netflix's "Between Two Ferns: The Movie."At the 2019 MTV Movie and TV Awards, Larson won the trophy for best fight for her character's epic battle against Minn-Erva in "Captain Marvel."Larson has also been outspoken about the need for diversity and inclusion in Hollywood. She's been rallying for an all-female Marvel movie and has voiced support for Captain Marvel and Valkyrie (played by Tessa Thompson) becoming the MCU's first same-sex couple.Paul, who won an Emmy for his performance as Jesse Pinkman on "Breaking Bad," starring in "El Camino: A Breaking Bad Movie." Fans had no idea that a sequel was in the works, so they were thrilled when it was officially announced in August.The film was released on the streaming service in October and although it wasn't heavy on the action that "Breaking Bad" fans might have gotten accustomed to, it provided closure for the beloved character, who escaped from a neo-Nazi compound during the 2013 series finale."El Camino" was filled with Easter eggs and nods to the original series, and Paul easily slipped back into character for a thrilling performance. The movie earned a 90% critics score and 81% audience rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The term "self-made" being applied to Jenner, who has grown up in the spotlight as the daughter of Kris Jenner and Caitlyn Jenner, caused waves of backlash. She initially defended it, saying that her parents "cut her off" when she was 15 and she "spent every last dime that I had" on launching Kylie Cosmetics. Two months later, she told the New York Times: "I can't say I've done it by myself. If they're just talking finances, technically, yes, I don't have any inherited money. But I have had a lot of help and a huge platform." Regardless of how she reached the financial milestone though, Jenner did cross the billionaire threshold this year. Jenner also expanded her billion-dollar fortune by launching Kylie Skin and selling "rise and shine" merchandise after a video of herself briefly singing to daughter Stormi Webster went viral and turned into a meme. Waller-Bridge created, starred, executive produced, and wrote episodes of "Fleabag." She racked up Emmys for outstanding comedy series, outstanding lead actress in a comedy series, and outstanding writing for a comedy series. The actress also reportedly signed a deal with Amazon Studios to continue creating projects for the streaming service. According to Variety, Waller-Bridge's deal is worth approximately $20 million a year.In addition, Waller-Bridge created the award-winning drama "Killing Eve" and hosted "Saturday Night Live" in October. She also worked on the script for the upcoming "James Bond" film and is the second woman to be given a writing credit in the history of the action franchise.  Lil Nas X's remix of the track, which seamlessly blends hip-hop and country sounds, featured Billy Ray Cyrus and peaked at No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100. The song, which was deemed the track of the summer, maintained the top spot on the chart for 19 weeks.The 20-year-old's achievement made history as the longest-running No. 1 track, dethroning Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee's "Despacito," (featuring Justin Bieber) and Mariah Carey and Boyz II Men's "One Sweet Day.""Old Town Road" is also one of 33 songs in history that have been certified diamond by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The accompanying music video accumulated more than 350 million views on YouTube and the remix has more than 700 million streams on Spotify.Lil Nas X also publicly came out as gay during Pride Month, released a new EP (which included the track "Panini"), won two MTV Video Music Awards, snagged a Country Music Award, and got nominated for six 2020 Grammys. In May, "Red Table Talk" returned for a second season, hosted by Pinkett Smith, daughter Willow Smith, and mother Adrienne Banfield Norris. On season two, the stars once again had candid conversations, exploring the impact of pornography on relationships, infidelity, interracial adoption, mother-daughter dynamics, narcissism, and white privilege. Season two also featured guests like Demi Moore, Rumer Willis, Tallulah Willis, Chelsea Handler, Alicia Keys, Jordyn Woods, and Ayesha Curry. The series, which is a game-changer in the talk show realm, was nominated for a Critics' Choice Real TV award and a People's Choice Award. Pinkett Smith was also presented with the Trailblazer Award at the 2019 MTV Movie and TV Awards in June. The actress starred as Billi in the film, which centered on a family traveling to China to spend time with the matriarch before her death. The movie was a change for Awkwafina, who previously showed off her comedic skills in films like "Crazy Rich Asians" and "Ocean's Eight." Regardless, viewers enjoyed it. "The Farewell" earned a critics score of 99% and an audience rating of 87% on Rotten Tomatoes. In 2019, Awkwafina also voiced characters on "The Simpsons," "The Angry Birds Movie 2," and "The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance." She also joined the MCU with a role in the upcoming film "Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings," scheduled to hit theaters on Friday, February 12, 2021. In December, she'll star alongside Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson in "Jumanji: The Next Level."Momoa voiced Aquaman in the 2019 "Lego Movie" sequel and guest-starred on "The Simpsons." He also stars as Baba Voss on the dystopian series "See," which dropped on the streaming service in November. In addition, he shaved off his beard for the first time in seven years to raise awareness about being more environmentally conscious — and promote his new company called Mananalu, which packages water in aluminum cans that can be recycled, unlike single-use plastic bottles.Next, Momoa will star as Duncan Idaho in the 2020 sci-fi film "Dune," based on a book by Frank Herbert. The cast includes Timothée Chalamet, Zendaya, and Dave Bautista. In 2022, Momoa will reprise his role as Aquaman for a sequel. It's unclear what the film will center on, but the actor told Esquire that he "came in with a big pitch.""I came in with the whole thing mapped out, and they loved it," he said.  "Truth Hurts," which was initially released in 2017, took off in 2019 and led Lizzo to earn her first No.1 on the Billboard Hot 100. The track was included as a bonus song on the deluxe version of her 2019 album "Cuz I Love You" and its music video has 150 million views. Lizzo's "Cuz I Love You" album also includes her catchy song "Juice." Another Lizzo song also gained more traction in 2019. "Good as Hell," which came out in 2016 as part of her "Coconut Oil" album, peaked at No. 4 on the Billboard Hot 100 in. She went on to release a remix of the track with Ariana Grande.  Lizzo also performed at Coachella and collaborated with Charli XCX for "Blame It on Your Love."Outside of music, she voiced a character in the animated movie "UglyDolls" and had a role in "Hustlers." In addition, the 31-year-old musician led the 2020 Grammy nominations with eight total nods.   Holland starred as Peter Parker/Spider-Man in the blockbuster film "Avengers: Endgame," which passed "Avatar" as the biggest movie of all time at the global box office. A few months later, he once again played the webslinger in "Spider-Man: Far From Home," which directly followed the events of "Endgame." Both films crossed the $1 billion mark at the box office.In August, Holland's future with Marvel was shaken up after Deadline reported that Sony and Disney were unable to reach a financial agreement regarding Spider-Man. As a result, the Marvel Studios president, Kevin Feige, wouldn't produce any future "Spider-Man" films and Holland's version of the character wouldn't be able to appear in the MCU.The following month, it was revealed that the studios ended their feud and will be coproducing the upcoming third "Spider-Man" film, which hits theaters on July 16, 2021.Fans rejoiced and the 23-year-old reacted to the good news by posting a scene from "The Wolf of Wall Street," which showed Leonardo DiCaprio's character giving a speech about "not leaving." Holland recently shaved off his hair for his role in a movie called "Cherry" with the Russo Brothers and will voice a character alongside Will Smith in the animated movie "Spies in Disguise." The film hits theaters on December 25, 2019. In 2020, you can expect to see him star in six movies: "Dolittle" with Robert Downey Jr., "The Devil All the Time," "Chaos Walking," Pixar's "Onward," "Cherry," and "Uncharted."After starring as the titular character on Disney Channel's "K.C. Undercover," Zendaya switched gears for her role as Rue on HBO's racy series about the modern teenage experience. "Euphoria" premiered in June 2019 and got renewed for a second season.In addition, the 23-year-old actress appeared on "The OA" and starred in the "Spider-Man" sequel. Next year, Zendaya will star in a film adaptation of "Dune."Outside of acting, Zendaya became Lancôme's global ambassador and collaborated with Tommy Hilfiger for a '70s-inspired collection that debuted at New York Fashion Week in September. She stunned in stylish outfits at 2019 award shows, too.     Pitt played stuntman Cliff Booth in the Quentin Tarantino-directed movie "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood." The film, which also starred Leonardo DiCaprio, was certified fresh on Rotten Tomatoes with a critics score of 85% and an audience rating of 70%.  Pitt also delivered a crowd-pleasing performance as an astronaut in "Ad Astra."Aside from acting, Pitt also served as the executive producer for "The OA" and "Sweetbitter." He produced "Ad Astra" and Netflix's "The King" starring Timothée Chalamet, too. In May, Rihanna kicked off the launch of her Fenty fashion brand with a pop-up store in Paris on Wednesday. The collection was also made available online. People also praised the fashion line for releasing promotional photos that appeared to be unedited and showed imperfections. This year, French luxury goods giant LVMH acquired Fenty and Rihanna became the "first woman to create an original brand at LVMH and the first woman of color at the top of an LVMH maison," according to the New York Times.In June, she was crowned the world's richest female musician, with an estimated net worth of $600 million, according to Forbes. Three months later, Rihanna's Savage X Fenty lingerie show took place as part of New York Fashion Week and was available to stream on Amazon Prime Video. Fans loved that the show featured a diverse group of models with varying shapes, sizes, and ethnic backgrounds. In October, she released a self-titled visual autobiography featuring 1,050 behind-the-scenes photos from her glamorous life. Rihanna also made headlines for calling out President Donald Trump's response to the mass shooting in El Paso, Texas, going day drinking with Seth Meyers, and starring in a film called  "Guava Island" alongside Donald Glover/Childish Gambino. Downey Jr. made his debut as the "genius, billionaire, playboy, and philanthropist" in "Iron Man," which was released 11 years ago. Since then, he's been a key player in the Marvel Cinematic Universe and is referred to as "the godfather" by costar Tom Holland.In "Avengers: Endgame," Tony made the ultimate sacrifice for his family and friends by wielding the power of the six Infinity Stones to snap away Thanos and his army. Because of the power of the stones, he didn't survive. The result was a gut-wrenching death season and emotional funeral near the end of the blockbuster film.Even though that's the last time we'll see Downey Jr. suit up as Iron Man, MCU costar Jeff Goldblum said that the actor will voice the character for Marvel's upcoming animated series called "What If...?"The actor was also honored with the Disney Legends Award at Disney's D23 convention in Anaheim, California in August. At San Diego Comic Con, fans went wild when Jolie was revealed as one of the stars of the upcoming Marvel film "The Eternals," which is part of the company's phase four and is set for release on Friday, November 6, 2020. Jolie will portray an immortal named Thena who has super strength and can fly in the comics, and it looks like she'll be wearing a blonde wig for the role. The star-studded cast includes Richard Madden, Kumail Nanjiani, and Salma Hayek.Jolie also reprised her starring role for "Maleficient: Mistress of Evil." The film earned a 95% audience score on Rotten Tomatoes (thought critics weren't big fans of the sequel) and grossed $400 million worldwide.At the Oscars, the 50-year-old actor stunned in a tuxedo dress complete with a full skirt. Porter also wore eye-catching looks to the Met Gala and the Peabody Awards. He also wore a rainbow gown to celebrate the Pride parade in New York City and showed support for women's reproductive rights with his Tony Awards outfit. Porter was also one of many stars to appear in Taylor Swift's music video for "You Need to Calm Down."Porter made history at the 2019 Emmys when he became the first openly gay man to win an Emmy for best actor in a drama series for his role of Pray Tell on FX's "Pose."The single from the album, "Me!" featuring Panic! At the Disco frontman Brendon Urie, broke the record for most views in 24 hours. It also became the fastest video to reach 100 million views on Vevo, doing so in 79 hours, Variety reported."Me!" went on to win the MTV VMA for best visual effects, too.Swift's "Lover" debuted at the top spot on the Billboard Hot 200, becoming her sixth consecutive album to achieve the feat."Lover" also won album of the year at the People's Choice Awards and Swift was presented with the Icon Award at the Teen Choice Awards in August. In November, she received three Grammy nominations for the 2020 awards show. At Billboard's upcoming Women in Music event on December 12, Swift will be presented with the award for Woman of the Decade, the first artist to receive the distinction. She will also be honored as the Artist of the Decade during Sunday's American Music Awards. The "Archer" singer will star as Bombalurina in the film "Cats," based on a Broadway show of the same name. She also wrote a new song for the film titled "Beautiful Ghosts" with Andrew Lloyd Webber. Singh rose to fame with her candid and humorous videos posted on YouTube, which were shared under the username IISuperwomanII.In February 2019, Singh publicly came out as bisexual, calling herself "female," "colored," and "bisexual.""Throughout my life these have proven to be obstacles from time to time," she wrote on Instagram. "But now I'm fully embracing them as my superpowers. No matter how many 'boxes' you check, I encourage you to do the same."She went on to thank fans for their outpouring of "love and positivity. Words can't describe how much it means. I appreciate you all. Group hug."In September, the internet personality made her late-night debut with "A Little Late With Lilly Singh" on NBC. She became the first openly bisexual woman of color to land a late-night talk show. .Todd Phillips' "The Joker" hit theaters in October and drew criticism for the connection between mental illness and violence, but people were also impressed by Phoenix's terrifying, chilling performance as the iconic comic-book character.  In several interviews, the actor explained how he transformed into Arthur Fleck by losing 52 pounds. Phoenix told Jimmy Kimmel that losing weight was so challenging that he had to motivate himself to climb stairs, but he also found it to be "empowering."Stars like Jessica Chastain called Phoenix's take on the Joker one of the "greatest pieces of acting" she's ever seen and the film has generated plenty of Oscar buzz. The hype surrounding "Joker" also led fans to flock to stairs in the Bronx that were featured in the film so they could take Instagram-worthy photos and videos (which resulted in outrage among the borough's residents), and the character was a popular choice for attendees at New York Comic Con. "Joker" went on to hit $1 billion at the box office and become the first R-rated movie in history to do so. The actress cohosted the show with "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" star Andy Samberg in January. In addition to being the first person of Asian descent to host the awards show, Oh won the trophy for best performance by an actress in a drama TV series for playing the titular character on "Killing Eve." She also became the first woman of Asian descent to win that award since Yoko Shimada did so in 1980 for "Shogun."This win paired with a previous Golden Globe that she won for her supporting role on "Grey's Anatomy" made Oh the first woman of Asian descent to win multiple Golden Globes. In her emotional acceptance speech, the actress spoke in Korean and told her parents that she loves them, then bowed to them respectfully from the stage. Oh went on to host "Saturday Night Live" in March and is the third Asian woman to do so, following in the footsteps of Lucy Liu and Awkwafina. Since "Friends" ended in 2004, Aniston had a few guest-starring parts on TV shows like "30 Rock" and "Cougar Town." Her role as Alex Levy on Apple TV Plus' drama "The Morning Show" marked her return after years of primarily starring in comedies.The show was released on the streaming service in November 2019, but actually got renewed for a second season two years prior. In 2019, Aniston also starred alongside Adam Sandler in Netflix's "Murder Mystery." Critics didn't like the comedy, but it broke Netflix viewing records. "Murder Mystery" also led Aniston to win a Peoples' Choice Award for favorite female movie star.The actress finally made her debut on Instagram in October by posting an epic selfie with all her "Friends" costars. Word about Aniston being on the app spread so quickly that the platform faced a few technical issues as millions of people tried to follow her. She gained 1 million followers in just five hours and 16 minutes, setting a record recognized by the Guinness World Records for the fastest time for an Instagram account to reach that milestone. The record was previously held by Prince Harry and Meghan Markle.     Witherspoon reprised her role as Madeline Martha Mackenzie on HBO's "BLL," which returned for its second season in June. According to costar Nicole Kidman, it's still unclear if the show will get renewed for a third season. On "The Morning Show," Witherspoon stars as Bradley Jackson and serves as an executive producer. The actress also continues to make strides with her multimedia company Hello Sunshine, which was launched in 2016. The brand, which pushes for more stories centered on females, will produce a new miniseries on Netflix starring Zoe Saldana. In addition, Witherspoon has a book club and somehow found time to learn about the latest app that's popular among youths, TikTok.In September, she posted a video on Instagram that showed son Deacon Phillippe answering all her burning questions about the popular app and demonstrated how to perform different dances that are popular on the platform. The following month, Witherspoon appeared on "The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon" and showed the late night host how to "Hit the Woah," referring to a move in which people move their arms in a short, circular motion as a beat drops on a song.  Feldstein, who's the sister of Jonah Hill, previously had roles in movies like "Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising" and "Lady Bird." But her leading role alongside Kaitlyn Dever in "Booksmart" made her one to watch in 2019.The coming-of-age movie, which got a 97% critics score and 77% audience rating on Rotten Tomatoes, centered on two friends who decide to party shortly before graduating from high school. "Booksmart" was referred to as a female version of "Superbad" with a fresh spin and people loved Feldstein's performance. Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
