The subject who is truly loyal to the Chief Magistrate will neither advise nor submit to arbitrary measures.Find your bookmarks by selecting your profile name.Getting audio file...Audio for this article is not available at this time.This translation has been automatically generated and has not been verified for accuracy. Full DisclaimerOntario's Minister of Energy Greg Rickford, seen here on Oct. 29, 2019, said he thinks Liberals are embarrassed about the cost of the carbon tax.Chris Young/The Canadian PressLiberal staffers are peeling government-mandated anti-carbon tax stickers off of gas pumps, Ontario Energy Minister Greg Rickford said Tuesday, insisting that disappearing decals are not the result of faulty glue.Rickford pointed to a Facebook post from the chief of staff for federal Liberal MP Paul Lefebvre, who boasted a milestone in ripping off the stickers.“Tonight, I ripped off and destroyed my 100th of Doug Ford’s propaganda stickers,” Mike Whitehouse wrote in a now-deleted post from Oct. 22. “Proud to do my part to push back on Ford’s grotesque reign of incompetence.”Story continues below advertisementWhitehouse posted a new statement Tuesday afternoon.“Lest this go any further, I want to make it clear that defacing stickers on gasoline pumps is against the law and I don’t … recommend anyone do it, no matter how morally and intellectually indefensible these stickers are,” he wrote. “I regret deeply that my actions may have detracted from the genuine and honest work that so many others are doing to fight the global climate crisis.”Rickford said he thinks Liberals are embarrassed about the cost of the carbon tax.The stickers show the federal carbon tax adding 4.4 cents per litre to the price of gas now, rising to 11 cents a litre in 2022. They do not include information about rebates available to residents.The carbon tax is expected to cost a typical household $258 this year and $648 by 2022. Residents of provinces with the tax will be getting rebates on their income tax returns that start at $128 annually and increase for people with spouses or dependants at home.Ford has previously commented on reports that the stickers were peeling off because they used the wrong adhesive, joking that his family label business should have produced the decals.“They have to pull me off the ceiling when I hear they are coming off,” the premier said last month. “It’s like the shoemaker’s daughter not getting shoes.”Story continues below advertisementStory continues below advertisementBut Rickford said Tuesday there’s no evidence that the stickers aren’t sticking.“The only problem that we’ve had with stickers are Liberal staffers actually peeling them off gas pumps,” Rickford said in the legislature.“There’s no evidence to support that the stickers are not sticking,” he added later.Interim Liberal Leader John Fraser said he didn’t buy it.“Where I get my gas, I’ve been watching the stickers slowly peel away from the pumps,” he said.Fraser said that peeling stickers off the pumps wasn’t appropriate, but Rickford is making it sound like a conspiracy theory of Liberal staffers fanning out across the province.Story continues below advertisementThe stickers have been criticized as forced speech by opposition politicians and Ontario’s Chamber of Commerce – and the Canadian Civil Liberties Association has launched a legal challenge.Ontario is among several provinces challenging the constitutionality of the federal carbon tax in court, and though Ford said in August that voters would decide the fate of it, the government is pressing ahead.Rickford defended the backtrack.“A minority government doesn’t validate the carbon tax,” he said.NDP Leader Andrea Horwath decried the $30 million the government has earmarked for its fight against the carbon tax, which includes the legal case it is taking to the country’s top court and the sticker campaign.“It’s a waste of public money all the way around,” she said.Story continues below advertisementOur Morning Update and Evening Update newsletters are written by Globe editors, giving you a concise summary of the day’s most important headlines. Sign up today.Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way. Click here to subscribe.If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to letters@globeandmail.com. Readers can also interact with The Globe on Facebook and Twitter .Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff. Non-subscribers can read and sort comments but will not be able to engage with them in any way. Click here to subscribe.If you would like to write a letter to the editor, please forward it to letters@globeandmail.com. Readers can also interact with The Globe on Facebook and Twitter .Welcome to The Globe and Mail’s comment community. This is a space where subscribers can engage with each other and Globe staff.We aim to create a safe and valuable space for discussion and debate. That means:Comments that violate our community guidelines will be removed.Read our community guidelines hereDiscussion loading ...Read most recent letters to the editor.© Copyright 2019 The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved.351 King Street East, Suite 1600, Toronto, ON Canada, M5A 0N1Phillip Crawley, Publisher