(Photo by Leon Halip/Getty Images)While the College Football Playoff rankings probably don’t have a ton of meaning for two-loss Michigan football, it’s still interesting to take a look at what it could mean.Following a 44-10 win over Michigan State last Saturday, the Wolverines moved up to No. 12 in the AP and coaches polls, but in the College Football Playoff rankings, Michigan football moved up only one spot to No. 13.That place is somewhat significant because it puts the Wolverines lowest among all the Big Ten teams with two losses. Ohio State is the top-ranked team in the conference coming in at No. 2, followed by Penn State (No. 8), Minnesota (No. 10) and Wisconsin (No. 12).Obviously, Wisconsin is getting the edge over Michigan because of the Badgers head-to-head advantage but that will only remain as long as both teams have two losses. And while it might be tough for Michigan to move in front of Penn State, which is four spots in front, it’s possible.Is your team in?— College Football Playoff (@CFBPlayoff) November 20, 2019Penn State plays at Ohio State this week and that figures to be a loss. Minnesota and Wisconsin also play each other and the winner would play either Penn State or Ohio State in the Big Ten title game.So if either Wisconsin lost another game or Minnesota finished with three losses, Michigan football could move in front of them in the Rose Bowl race. But that still leaves Penn State.The Nittany Lions still have the inside track on a Rose Bowl berth assuming they lose to Ohio State and the Buckeyes go on to win the Big Ten. But, what if Michigan beats Ohio State and the Nittany Lions are thoroughly defeated?Seeing that UM would also own wins over Iowa and Notre Dame, two other top-20 teams in the current rankings, that would be a strong resume. Yet, if each team has the same number of losses, it’s easy to see Penn State getting the nod.Either way, as long as Michigan keeps winning, it will be among the top 10 teams and if that’s the case at the end of the season, a New Year’s Six Bowl should await the Wolverines.Build your own custom daily newsletter with updates on your favorite teams, sent directly to your inbox.Your privacy is safe with us. We'll never pass along your email address to spammers, scammers, or the like.Your favorite teams, topics, and players all on your favorite mobile devices.© 2019 FanSided Inc. All Rights Reserved.by Chris Petersonby Scott Polacekby Chris Petersonby Matthew Helmkamp