Earlier this week Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders endorsed Cenk Uygur, creator of the TV show and web series "The Young Turks" for a California congressional seat. But on Friday, the Los Angeles Times published a scathing exposé on Uygur, exposing his long history of making crude comments about women and using racist language. Now, some Sanders supporters are calling on the candidate to disavow Ugyur.Forty-nine-year-old Uygur co-founded "Turks" in 2002. In the course of his broadcasts, he's made several controversial comments about women's looks and used racial slurs.Among his targets: lesbians, Jews, and women, CNN and the Los Angles Times reported. Ironically, Uygur is running to fill the seat vacated by former Rep. Katie Hill, who resigned after nude photos of her were leaked online.In a statement released by Uygur's campaign, Sanders is quoted as saying that Uygur is "a voice that we desperately need in Congress". "For many years Cenk has been one of the outstanding progressive journos in our country," Sanders said, whose 2016 presidential campaign was accused of sexism."He has shown enormous courage in standing up to the greed and power of the corporate elite and has spent his entire life fighting for justice and the needs of the working people of our country," Sanders continued. "For years, Cenk has inspired people all across the country to organize against corrupt forces in our politics, and now he's organizing the people in his district to do the same." 








        Bernie Sanders with Cenk Uygur on the set of 'The Young Turks' in 2016.
      
Matt McClain/ The Washington Post via Getty Images

Insider has reached out to both Sanders and Uygur's campaigns for comment. Uygur has already faced steep criticism for his past comments, and many are questioning Sanders' decision to endorse him questioning if Sanders didn't know or just didn't care. The LA County Democratic Party said that Sanders was betraying his progressive values by endorsing Uygur.In 2017 Uygur was forced to leave the group Justice Democrats, which advocates on behalf of progressive candidates, after misogynistic blog posts written in 1999 were unearthed, Huffington Post reported. In the blog post, found by The Wrap, Uygur wrote: "Obviously, the genes of women are flawed. They are poorly designed creatures who do not want to have sex nearly as often as needed for the human race to get along peaceably and fruitfully."Uygur was flagged for repeatedly using the N-word during broadcasts. He claimed he could use the word because he intended to "mock" racists, according to the Los Angeles Times. In an interview with CNN in November, Uygur distanced himself from some of his past comments and admitted that he'd deleted several insensitive posts. 








        Cenk with right-wing pundit Ben Shapiro at Politicon in 2017.
      
John Sciulli/Getty Images for Politicon

"I deleted it 15 years ago not because I got caught, or because I thought somebody was going to find it, I deleted it because I didn't believe it anymore. ... This is not me," Uygur told CNN. "I was trying to be a stupid, politically incorrect Republican," he said. "So I wrote these things I knew were offensive." But, as Jezebel noted, several of Uygur's comments are more recent. In 2013, he used his Twitter account to discuss the breasts and butts of women in Miami, And declared them "outrageously, almost unacceptably, hot."And as recently as 2016, Uygur defended the Harvard University men's soccer team for ranking female students according to their sexual appeal and explicitly describing potential sex acts with them. The problem with the list, he said, was not its existence, but that it had been made public. In a 2017 article about Cenk's lewd history, a former Young Turks employee told The Wrap that Uygur routinely made female staffers feel uncomfortable."Cenk is just a knucklehead. He's a boy. He talks about women the way I talked when I was 13," the staffer said. "He's obsessed with body count — basically how many people you f—ed. This is an important number to him."UPDATE:On Friday afternoon Uygur released a statement saying he would no longer be soliciting or accepting endorsements.UPDATE:Bernie Sanders retracted his endorsement on Friday afternoon.    Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
