Moscow may not have any Michelin-starred restaurants, but it's home to its fair share of fine-dining establishments.Two Moscow restaurants — White Rabbit and Twins Garden — made the 2019 World's 50 Best Restaurants list, a ranking based on the opinions of international chefs, food writers, and "travelling gourmets."But one of the most iconic restaurants in the city is Café Pushkin, named after the Russian poet Aleksandr Pushkin. On TripAdvisor, it has more than 8,100 reviews — and a higher rating than White Rabbit. Reviewers describe it as "legendary," "iconic," and "like visiting a museum."Café Pushkin opened in 1999 in a renovated 18th-century Baroque mansion on Tverskoy Boulevard in central Moscow. The boulevard was a famous hangout for Moscow high society after it opened in 1796, and Pushkin himself was often seen strolling there, according to the restaurant's website.While on a 12-day trip to Russia earlier this year, I had to go see what the hype was all about. On top of the solid reviews, a local had highly recommended that I eat there. So one day, I went to Café Pushkin for a solo lunch — here's what it was like.The restaurant opened in 1999 in a renovated 19th-century Baroque mansion on Tverskoy Boulevard, a famous hangout for Moscow high society where Pushkin himself was often seen strolling.According to Café Pushkin's website, the mansion was built by a Saint Petersburg nobleman in the 1780s and later passed to a German aristocrat before becoming a pharmacy and, finally, a café.I didn't get to see this display, unfortunately, as I visited in the summer.Source: TripAdvisorFor starters, Café Pushkin offers several types of salad, including a grilled-duck-breast salad for 970 rubles (about $15) and a crab-meat salad with fresh cucumber and papaya for 1,790 rubles (about $28).There were also homemade mini pies, which sounded more appealing to me and cost 170 to 250 rubles ($2.65 to $3.90) an order. I decided to get one with potatoes and mushrooms to start.I took a chance and ordered a glass of Russian wine, even though I'd never tasted Russian wine in my life.It was fine, but not my favorite.This is apparently a thing at fancy restaurants, which I obviously do not frequent.The inside was piping hot. I ate the whole thing in about four bites, and it was delicious.But eat it I did. The scallops and trout were sprinkled with chives and micro greens and drizzled with a mustard vinaigrette. Tiny adorable flowers made out of radishes and cucumbers were nestled on the side.The dish was light and the fish tasted fresh. I ate it with a roll of soft and fluffy bread that the server offered me from a basket.The carpaccio was 940 rubles, or about $14.70.I got the pork-lamb-and-beef pelmeni. The dumplings were dusted with a generous amount of dill, which is apparently Russia's most beloved herb and is sprinkled on anything and everything.I'm not usually a big fan of sour cream, but at Café Pushkin it tasted fresh and homemade, and the tanginess seemed essential to go along with the dumplings.Café Pushkin is also known for its caviar, which ranges from 850 rubles (about $13) for salmon caviar with buckwheat crepes to 14,200 rubles (about $222) for an assortment of sterlet, sturgeon, beluga, and golden caviar with crepes.By that time, I was so full I could barely finish the last couple of dumplings.But the meal wasn't over.Café Pushkin is known for its extensive dessert menu, which has lemon pie, honey cake, an apple-and-caramel chocolate mousse, and millefeuille, among many other things.Ultimately, I was glad I went with the classic namesake option, which cost 960 rubles, or about $15.Layers of pistachio and raspberry sorbet were covered with a chocolate shell and shaved almonds, with a soft crust on the bottom. It was surrounded by some kind of unidentified yet delectable creamy sauce.It's not a price I would typically pay for a weekday lunch, but this was no ordinary lunch. The décor made me feel as if I had traveled back in time, and the food and service were top-notch. Each of my dishes seemed to arrive at exactly the right time — neither too quickly nor too slowly. I was surprised to realize I'd spent two hours at Café Pushkin. It doesn't seem like the place to stop in for a quick bite but rather to enjoy a leisurely meal in a setting that feels like an opulent museum.While the restaurant is undeniably touristy, that does nothing to detract from its appeal.