That’s a good start to the road trip, boys. We salute you. Final Score: 5-2 OilersWhen these two teams met up a week ago, the first period could not have gone worse for the Edmonton Oilers — the game was basically over before it really had a chance to get started. Down by a field goal before the first period was even 12 minutes old, the best the Oilers could really do was try to save face and not let the thing get completely out of hand. Needless to say, that could not happen again tonight. I refused to sit up this much past my bedtime and have my heart hurt like that again. With four divisional games on the schedule, this week’s road trip is far too important for the boys to let it get started with another late night turd, and so it was absolutely crucial that they get rolling from the moment the puck dropped. Avenge the loss. Play angry. Do whatever it took. Now that we’re nearing the seemingly magical American Thanksgiving playoff line, I need the boys to be securing as many divisional points as they possibly can. Win today, keep ’em in your pocket for later. It’s a small dream, but it’s my dream.Seeing as the Oilers started their last visit to San Jose with all the sexiness of a burning barrel full of diapers, they needed to start the game like their lives depended on it. And while the shot clock told a completely different story, the Oilers managed to put three first period goals past Martin Jones and set themselves up with a huge advantage. Was I nervous about how many times Koskinen had to bail the team out in the first? Yes, absolutely, but I remained hopeful that the rope-a-dope strategy the boys were running with was going to work out anyway. In the middle frame, the Oilers were able to settle things down, manufacture some chances, and really limit San Jose’s ability to generate from the cycle. Even better, they were able to extend their lead to three goals and give themselves a chance at redemption after blowing Saturday’s lead against the Stars. Though, as we saw in that very game, there are no guaranteed wins in this league and taking the final period off it’s going to get you anything but heartbreak.This time, rather than lay down and wait for tummy tickles, the Oilers kept pushing forward until the job was done and two points were tucked away in the bank. Not only did the big boys come to play, but Edmonton also got the secondary scoring we crave to go along with sensational goaltending and it was lights out for San Jose.The wrap.I'm sorta enjoying the Milan Lucic Experience in Calgary. I've never seen someone that resembled a table hockey player so closely.— Robert Cleave (@rmcleave) November 20, 2019Going forward, every Pacific Division game is going to feel like a playoff contest. Because it has to. Because it is.@jsbmbaggedmilk @OilersnationHQ— Turner L. Watson (@TurnerWatson) November 20, 2019NAME A BIGGER THING KHAIRA HAS THAN THAT TIMELY GOAL TELL ME NOW— Wanye (@WanyeGretz) November 20, 2019#AlwaysMoBrosWTF THE 2 HAND CHOP TO BENNING’S FACE???— Arch (@Archaeologuy) November 20, 2019Come on @EdmontonOilers!!! Get this to the marketing department and get them to call @Arbys When the Oilers win, everybody wins a Beef n Cheddar!!! https://t.co/7zorUt5a3z— Real Steal 18 (@RPW_1832) November 20, 2019What Leon Draisaitl looked like the last time he didn’t get a point pic.twitter.com/ZzeSZr1wC4Talk to me, Twitter. Tweet at @OilersnationHQ and @jsbmbaggedmilk for your chance to land in the Best of the Tweets.The man is a warlord and deserves to be commemorated by a new tee. Check out the Neon Leon version 3.0 tee that is now available at NationGear.ca.Source: NHL, Official Game Page, 11/19/2019 – 11:30 pm MTBy baggedmilkFinal  2 - 3 VSPollThe Nation NetworkCopyright © 2019 The Nation Network Inc.Not a member? Join the NationPlease enter your email address to reset your password.