The RAM 1500 pickup is Business Insider's 2019 Car of the Year!It joins an illustrious lineup of past winners: the Corvette Stingray in 2014, the Volvo XC90 in 2015, the Acura NSX in 2016, the Porsche Panamera in 2017, and the Kia Stinger in 2018.There's no debate: 2019 was a big year for pickup trucks. The Detroit Big Three — General Motors, Ford, and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles — each relaunched or refreshed their flagship full-size pickups and brought them to market.We drove them all, and we decided that while they were all great, the RAM 1500 was the best. Beyond that, we concluded that the RAM 1500 was the most impressive and important vehicle we drove all year long.In the six years that Business Insider has been naming a Car of the Year, we've proclaimed several sports cars and high-performance sedans the big winner, along with a large SUV.But a few years ago we started reviewing many more pickups. We found that these hugely popular vehicles, once relegated to work on ranches, farms, and jobsites, were offering a premium experience to rival certain luxury cars, performance on par with sports cars and cutting-edge technology. And they could still haul thousands of pounds and tow thousands more.And from a business perspective, tricked-out trucks have filled Detroit coffers with cash, enabling GM and FCA to put their 2009 bankruptcies in the rearview and allowing Ford to invest billions in a restructuring effort.The Ford F-150 has been America's best-selling vehicle every year since the Reagan administration. Chevy's Silverado and GMC's Sierra are often neck and neck with the Ford. But the RAM 1500 is special.It's the most plush-driving and provocatively designed full-size pickup on sale today, making it the perfect full-size for the modern buyer. But it's hardly a pickup for pretenders. Its specs are robust, and its signature feature — a four-wheel independent suspension — has proved itself over the years for durability and performance.In choosing a Car of the Year, our methodology is based on a handful of simple questions.To be eligible, all models must be new or have been substantially updated within the past year.The RAM 1500 checks all these boxes, and brings a new factor to the party: We'd never before included a pickup as a Car of the Year finalist. And when we did, it won the big trophy on its first attempt.The competition was stiff — heck, the RAM beat out both Lamborghini's first-ever SUV and the revamped Porsche Cayenne, not to mention two Mercedes-Benzes — but in the end, we agreed that the RAM 1500 was simply a spectacular effort in every way. Our minds were blown. The pickup truck has been redefined in the 21st century. And the RAM 1500 is leading the way. Photos by Crystal Cox.A version that visited our test center a bit later in the year was a RAM 1500 Limited Crew Cab, with a "Diamond Crystal Pearl-Coat" paint job. It's as-tested price was $69,000.GPS navigation is solid and the system offers a suite of apps to go along with USB/AUX ports for device connection. Bluetooth pairing is easy and the RAM 1500 has wireless charging. Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are also available.The 2019 RAM 1500 is the best full-size pickup truck I've ever tested. I even got to challenge the 4x4 system with about a foot of snow at our suburban New Jersey test center, and the RAM brushed it off like nothing.OK, I'll accept that the F-150 and Silverado loyalists out there don't like the RAM's suspension. Yes, it could break down under serious stress. But in my testing, this truck was bliss to drive."It truly is the level of refinement that the RAM 1500 brings to the segment that helps it stand out, even as Ford and Chevy/GMC sell more trucks," I wrote in my review of the outgoing generation. "RAM has carved out far more than a niche at No. 3 and isn't dropping the ball when it comes to what its loyalist expect."With the all-new 2019 pickup, RAM might have moved past that No. 3 niche and positioned the Silverado in its sights. The RAM 1500 is a no-compromise pickup, perfectly pitched for the new pickup market, which is as much about everyday driving as hardcore performance.Don't get me wrong: The Silverado is no slouch. And in fairness, the RAM 1500 I tested cost $12,000 more, so it should have been impressive.But even taking that into account, the RAM is a superior full-size beast, and while the 5.7-liter Hemi V8 isn't as powerful on paper as the Silverado's 6.2-liter V8, the RAM's torque-boosting hybrid makes the 1500 feel as though it has more punch. And the RAM's 8-speed transmission, in my hands, felt like it shifted more smoothly than the Silverado's 10-speed.I also checked back in with the F-150 during the year, and while it remains a fantastic truck, the RAM is just a little bit better right now.Pickup-truck buyers don't want for choices these days. But, boy, I challenge anybody seeking a new truck to sample the RAM 1500 and not be tempted by what I think is the best full-size pickup money can buy.Congratulations to RAM and FCA for winning our sixth annual Car of the Year award and becoming our first-ever pickup to contest for the honor — and win!