The SEC has some explaining to do…On secsports.com, the official website for the Southeastern Conference, the post-Week 11 rankings for all 14 teams are accurate. The SEC West standings, however, are apparently decided by something other than the seven teams’ records.At least pretend @SEC pic.twitter.com/9ehsid25l0— T-Bob Hebert (@TBob53) November 10, 2019Obviously, everyone knows that LSU is on top in the SEC West after the Tigers beat Alabama 46-41 to advance to 9-0 in the 2019 season. But the conference might want to do something about its website. Or maybe being Alabama just means more than winning on the field.We can’t wait for James Carville to chime in!You must be logged in to post a comment. Please sign in or registerThat’s funny stuff.  I just visited the site, and they still haven’t changed it.Birmingham location….Then again you hit the nail on the head…it’s published out of Birmingham, I’m sure the mental anguish, despair and agony will linger for quite awhile before they can think straight again.Maybe it’s the p/f and p/aI just went and looked myself and it still shows Alabama on too. The only possible “explanation” and a weak one at that, is Alabama has played 6 conference games and LSU has 5. Either way, anyone with a functioning brain knows LSU is in first place.For those who don’t understand math or conference standings, Alabama (5-1) has a half game lead over LSU (5-0). Standings are not based off percentage but ratio of win/loss/games. Once LSU has equal the total number of games, they will he considered top of the West.A typical stupid explanation for Bama Bias in the SEC.  Sorry Bama fans but your team can’t be number one EVERY year.  At least you play a decent schedule and haven’t played Wolford like a certain ACC team we know.A typical stupid explanation for Bama Bias in the SEC.  Sorry Bama fans but your team can’t be number one EVERY year.  At least you play a decent schedule and haven’t played Wolford like a certain ACC team we know. BTW 1.000 beats .833 every time.  Welcome to fractions!Are you for real? How in the hell can Bama be a half game ahead?? This isn’t baseball and both teams have played the SAME AMOUNT OF GAMES.Man that’s just dumb. You clearly don’t understand math. Both teams have five conference wins.  Bama also has a loss. That means LSU is 1/2 game ahead of Bama. Your math teacher clearly failed you.This is pretty much the equivalent of saying “hey, up their in that sentence you used there wrong.”No! You don’t understand.It has been fixed.Hahaha. Hasn’t sunk in yet.The site has been like this for years. The win-loss updates immediately, but the order doesn’t update until later. It’s not bias, just bad site design.Incorrect.  It’s because the SEC office is in Birmingham.  Everybody knows this.The fact that LSU is 4-0 on the road and Bama is 2-0 shows we were truly prepared for this matchup