
You forgot to mention the elephant in the room - another drop in iPhone sales.

You forgot to mention that they also missed in Mac Sales.

Apple is doomed

9% versus 15% earlier? Even that is stabilizing. Everyone knows this. We've moved on. The growth in other areas more than made up for it, making it a record revenue quarter.

The reasons people like you haven't made money in Apple is because you're stuck in the past. Everyone knows iPhone sales have plateaued. The services growth of 18%, wearables of 51%, and iPad of 17% are taking the company forward.

But keep digging in your heels about iPhone...you're focused on the wrong thing in an attempt to be right.
[automerge]1572470026[/automerge]

iPad growth of 17% more than made up for it. iPad is taking over Mac. $349M decline in Mac, increase of $673M in iPad. I'll take it and so will Apple.

Both models of Mac were updated last year, tough compare. Overall, Mac sales were up annually. You mad?

Another dominant quarter from the best executing company on the planet.

* Record Q4 revenue of $64B.
* 18% services growth.
* 51% wearables growth.
* 17% iPad growth.


How is having less disposable income "no bearing on your life" after you needlessly overpay for an Apple device?
This is a zero sums game. This money wasn't printed out of thin air, it did actually come out of your pocket.
How is having less disposable income "no bearing on your life" after you needlessly overpay for an Apple device?
This is a zero sums game. This money wasn't printed out of thin air, it did actually come out of your pocket.Apple is separating the new smartphones into its usual low-cost versus high-cost categories, with big differences between the two models coming down to the camera, display, and battery life.
At first glance, the two devices have quite a few similarities, but the iPhone 11 takes a step forward in regards to cameras, battery life, and more.There are dozens if not hundreds of smaller new changes and tweaks that are included in iOS 13. 
One of iOS 13's major new features is a systemwide Dark Mode option, which matches the Dark Mode feature we got in macOS Mojave last year.
All-new modular design, starting at $5999.New 6K pro-level display, starting at $4999.Potential speed bump or more substantial update with triple-lens rear camera. MacRumors attracts a broad audience
of both consumers and professionals interested in
the latest technologies and products. We also boast an active community focused on
purchasing decisions and technical aspects of the iPhone, iPod, iPad, and Mac platforms.