A pizza in the shape of a jack-o'-lantern sounds exciting in theory, but in reality it looks creepy AF.Papa John's, the pizza chain that came under fire in 2018 after its founder and former CEO John Schnatter reportedly used a racial slur during a conference call, recently tried to hype customers up for Halloween with a festive seasonal special: A pizza shaped like a jack-o'-lantern with pepperonis.The promotional photo of the $11.00 pizza looked sort of cute and also sort of creepy, but it also looked well put together with a good-sized stem, symmetrical olive pupils, and nice, clean pepperoni crust, eyes, and mouth.The Jack-O’-Lantern pizza is back. It’s a lot like a normal Jack-O’-Lantern, except you’re the one with lights in your eyes. 🎃🤩Grab one for just 11 bucks. pic.twitter.com/bfaoFybINn— Papa John's Pizza (@PapaJohns) October 27, 2019SEE ALSO: Mitt Romney's grandson dresses as Pierre Delecto for HalloweenWhen people ordered the pizza, however, it did not look as advertised.Several disappointed and confused customers who ordered from Papa John's expecting a beautiful jack-o'-lantern pie to arrive at their houses tweeted photos of their not-so-stunning pizzas at the restaurant chain.Here are a few of the jack-o'-lantern pies gone wrong — though we will say they're spooky, which is technically still on-brand for Halloween.Thought this was a neat idea, but i guess its the thought that counts pic.twitter.com/XTF2stGYwk— Elizabeth M Hinrichs (@ElizabethMHinr1) October 27, 2019🤔 Kids were pretty disappointed by whatever this is supposed to be... pic.twitter.com/FsQ3gDq4Q6— Jessica (@thefirstjess) October 27, 2019No one at my house knew it was a jack o lantern lol. I was so excited when I opened the box for my 5 yr old grandson...he said...um..yeah..great, pizza..... pic.twitter.com/7fNhqmocNG— Vera Knight (@veraknight13) October 31, 2019Mine was just a happy face... pic.twitter.com/bFKrNDrHsj— SaTexasFoodies (@satexasfoodies) October 28, 2019It looks way cuter in the ad 😂 pic.twitter.com/08Mw8yV2N4— Sasha Christen (@Sasha_Christenx) October 27, 2019This was ours last night. pic.twitter.com/SQEtza76d3— Miranda (@MiSpi_5) October 30, 2019The Papa John's Twitter account has been busy replying to unsatisfied customers, and if you're one of them the chain wants you to remember that "the pumpkin is in the eye of the beholder."Well, the pumpkin is in the eye of the beholder. But the pizza is delicious.— Papa John's Pizza (@PapaJohns) October 27, 2019Maybe you can try making your own jack-o'-lantern pizza next year, but for now, cherish this video of how Papa John's intended the pie to look.We’ve never actually tried dipping a pumpkin in garlic sauce, but this Jack-O’-Lantern pizza is definitely better. Get yours today for $11 pic.twitter.com/pJSwNKQ1EZ— Papa John's Pizza (@PapaJohns) October 14, 2019