Wireless speakers have been out on the market for a while now, and while they're popular, most people get them for convenience. Sure, it's better than listening to music on your phone, but they don't really carry the weight of an audiophile's expectations.The VIZIO SP30-E0 SmartCast™ Crave Go™ Wireless Speaker is definitely out to raise that bar.First and foremost, it delivers on sound. The custom drivers are equipped with DTS Studio Sound™ and TruVolume™, which means (among other things) that they can be cranked up to 88 dB while the bass stays crisp and low.As for the convenience, the SP30-E0 has things covered on multiple fronts. Its battery lets it put out up to 6 hours of continuous music. You can connect to any device with Bluetooth and control it with Google Home or the SmartCast app. Want to create a real home audio system? Set up multiple Crave Go™ speakers in your house and select one or all to play the music you choose.The SP30-E0 is already on sale for more than 65% off retail, but you can take an extra 15% off for Black Friday with the online code BFSAVE15.Don't wait for Black Friday—you can get these top-sellers at deep discounts today!Ride-hailing service Uber has lost its license to operate private hire vehicles in London, after Transport For London authorities discovered that over 14,000 trips were taken with more than 40 drivers operating under fake identities on the Uber app. The Uber cars won’t disappear from London streets right away — the company plans to appeal.T-Mobile today admitted that a recent “criminal hack” accessed personal data of some prepaid wireless customers’ accounts.Facebook today confirmed what has long been rumored: Donald Trump hosted a dinner which was not disclosed to the public in October 2019 with Mark Zuckerberg and Peter Thiel, at the White House.
“Craft” is a buzzword that gets thrown around a lot these days, but what does it actually mean? Sadly, it’s all too easy to fake craftsmanship when looks are all you have to go by. On the other hand, you know from the first cut whether you’re handling a good chef’s knife or not. And […]We know that boutique baristas have introduced a lot of mad science when it comes to brewing, but believe us when we say there’s nothing like a good pour-over coffee. As brewing methods go, it’s not that complex but still not the kind of thing you can do (let’s say) at the office before work. […]Smartphone cameras are getting better with every new update, but they still lack a lot of versatility. There’s a reason why pro photographers still lug around DSLR cameras and an array of lenses to suit different lighting conditions. While there’s still nothing like a dedicated camera, the RevolCam goes a long way toward bridging the […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support