The Sound Archive posted a 1930s-era recording of a conversation in a British pharmacy. The received-pronunciation chatter isn't quite reality--it was recorded to teach English as a foreign language--but it's a stark and amusing insight into English as she was spoke. Madam. Would you like a hard brush, or a medium one?The recording also offers a glimpse of contemporary pharmaceutical products and terminology. Court plaster – as opposed, simply, to plaster or sticking plaster – is particularly intriguing and J.R. Firth’s endorsement of the brand New-skin ('you see what it is from what it says on the label') bears an uncanny resemblance to the famous 1990s TV slogan for Ronseal wood preserver (‘it does exactly what it says on the tin’). Finally, Lilias Armstrong’s use of good morning as a farewell might seem particularly unusual to modern ears.Photo: National Library of IrelandPack rats, aka woodrats, build their nests, called middens, from plant debris, rocks, animal parts, paper, and almost any other bits of detritus nearby. Frequently, they urinate on their middens. The urine crystalizes and encases the nest material, preserving it for as long as 50,000 years by some estimates. For paleobotanists, middens are a great […]		Today, we are told that the bigness of Big Tech giants was inevitable: the result of "network effects." For example, once everyone you want to talk to is on Facebook, you can't be convinced to use another, superior service, because all the people you'd use that service to talk to are still on Facebook. And […]		A clip from director Hugues Nancy’s “Paris 1900, the City of Lights,” featuring restored and colorized film footage from the fin de siècle. From C21Media: Thanks to incredible archives restored and fully colorized, this film presents a previously unseen journey through time and space. Discover, Paris in 1900 at the time of the Exposition Universelle […]		
“Craft” is a buzzword that gets thrown around a lot these days, but what does it actually mean? Sadly, it’s all too easy to fake craftsmanship when looks are all you have to go by. On the other hand, you know from the first cut whether you’re handling a good chef’s knife or not. And […]Wireless speakers have been out on the market for a while now, and while they’re popular, most people get them for convenience. Sure, it’s better than listening to music on your phone, but they don’t really carry the weight of an audiophile’s expectations. The VIZIO SP30-E0 SmartCast™ Crave Go™ Wireless Speaker is definitely out to […]We know that boutique baristas have introduced a lot of mad science when it comes to brewing, but believe us when we say there’s nothing like a good pour-over coffee. As brewing methods go, it’s not that complex but still not the kind of thing you can do (let’s say) at the office before work. […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support