"Craft" is a buzzword that gets thrown around a lot these days, but what does it actually mean? Sadly, it's all too easy to fake craftsmanship when looks are all you have to go by.On the other hand, you know from the first cut whether you're handling a good chef's knife or not. And this Damasukasu Japanese 3-Piece Master Chef Hanshu Knife Set is sharp in more ways than one.There's a subtle alternating pattern to the carbon-rich steel that makes these knives worthy of display, but they are definitely made to be used. The steel is nitrogen-cooled to a Rockwell hardness rating of over 62, and the 12-degree edge means smooth cuts every time on a variety of meats and veggies.Each knife is full tang and balanced to exacting standards. And, they're corrosion and rust-resistant to ensure that they'll be your go-to knife set for many meals.The price has dropped on the three-piece set by more than $100 off the previous sale price, but you can take an additional 15% off that final cost by using the online code BFSAVE15.Don't wait for Black Friday—you can get these top-sellers at deep discounts today!Ride-hailing service Uber has lost its license to operate private hire vehicles in London, after Transport For London authorities discovered that over 14,000 trips were taken with more than 40 drivers operating under fake identities on the Uber app. The Uber cars won’t disappear from London streets right away — the company plans to appeal.T-Mobile today admitted that a recent “criminal hack” accessed personal data of some prepaid wireless customers’ accounts.Facebook today confirmed what has long been rumored: Donald Trump hosted a dinner which was not disclosed to the public in October 2019 with Mark Zuckerberg and Peter Thiel, at the White House.
Wireless speakers have been out on the market for a while now, and while they’re popular, most people get them for convenience. Sure, it’s better than listening to music on your phone, but they don’t really carry the weight of an audiophile’s expectations. The VIZIO SP30-E0 SmartCast™ Crave Go™ Wireless Speaker is definitely out to […]We know that boutique baristas have introduced a lot of mad science when it comes to brewing, but believe us when we say there’s nothing like a good pour-over coffee. As brewing methods go, it’s not that complex but still not the kind of thing you can do (let’s say) at the office before work. […]Smartphone cameras are getting better with every new update, but they still lack a lot of versatility. There’s a reason why pro photographers still lug around DSLR cameras and an array of lenses to suit different lighting conditions. While there’s still nothing like a dedicated camera, the RevolCam goes a long way toward bridging the […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support