GRAND LAKE, Colo. (CBS4) – Video posted on Facebook showing a horse tied to the back of a pickup truck and being pulled has sparked outrage across the country. The Grand County Sheriff’s Office has seized the horse, named Trigger, which is at the center of an animal abuse investigation.(credit: Grand County)The horse’s owners, who did not want to be identified, talked to CBS4’s Matt Kroschel from their home in Grand County on Monday.“You make one bad decision sometimes and it can destroy your life,” the woman told CBS4. “I’ve lost my job over this, I’ve upset a lot of people. I made our horse go through something that he shouldn’t have. I was wrong.”(credit: CBS)The Grand County Sheriff’s office launched an investigation after numerous people contacted them about the video posted Sunday on Facebook. In the video, a horse can be seen tied by its halter to the back of a pickup truck as the truck drives away, pulling the horse for at least 100 yards down the snow-covered road.“Cases involving kids and animals are obviously very emotional,” said Grand County Sheriff Brett Schroetlin. “We need to do our part of the investigation which sometimes takes a little bit longer than what the community is hoping.”(credit: CBS)The Grand County Sheriff said deputies learned about the video and immediately responded by launching an investigation Sunday evening.Trigger is a new addition to the family. The new owner said the horse gave his past owners problems.(credit: CBS)“I’m very sorry. I get why people are upset,” Trigger’s owner told CBS4. “I was so stupid, I don’t know why we did it.”Trigger was taken from the home and will be evaluated by animal welfare officers. The couple owns two other horses. Those horses were not seized on Monday.The late author of the Polity of Beasts said it best: “Whenever you wonder why bad things happen to good people, maybe it’s because people aren’t so ‘good’ “don;t see the big deal take the horse and make a big jar of glueTake all horses off that property and prohibit the rotten abusers to ever own another horse.  I would not trust them with any animals actually.I hope the authorities keep an eye on them. If they did it to this horse, they may do it to their other horses.Waaah, I could have dragged an animal to death and I lost my job. Absolutely zero f*cks given lady, as far as I’m concerned, people like you should be punished the same way you punished the animal. Animals are sentient, they  have feelings. I bet that horse was feeling terror and pain and you should too!I’d also like to know WHO THE HECK WAS DOING THE VIDEO??  Both the driver/owner AND the person videoing need to be charged!Is that how you as a person were taught?  Let me remind you, PRESIDENT TRUMP SIGNED THE ANIMAL CRUELTY BILL INTO FEDERAL LAW….. THIS QUALIFIES YOUR ACT AS A FELONY!!!!!!!!!!   if the little horse had troubles before,  he darn sure is messed up now! both mentally and physically. you have NO WAY of telling how much harm you did to this animal with your careless stunt. I dont give a rat’s backside what the animal did that you felt qualified for this type of straight out intentional abuse!  I pray that karma comes along and drags you face down through the rest of your life!Typical Trump move. Sign bill protecting animals, allow pedophiles and rapists to run free.Just watch what happens when all the reports start being published.  The Deep State and corruption runs wide and deep.  Patience!I say what people do to people and especially animals they should do the same thing to them. She should have all her animals taken away. She probably does it to her other animals but just hasn’t gotten caught. SHE IS A ASS——-!!!!!!!!What in the hell is this about. I can not believe that some one did not grab this ass hole out of the truck and drag him behind the truck and see if he handles it or not. foul calling foul.