Smartphone lens manufacturer Moment has announced its new Fisheye 14mm Lens, an add-on lens that Moment claims ‘is the widest, crispiest shot you can have on a phone.’The lens features an all-new optical design made specifically for the latest smartphones from Apple, Google, OnePlus and Samsung. It features a bi-aspheric design that Moment claims uses 15-percent more of the image sensor than its existing Fisheye 15mm lens.This design results in a 170-degree field of view that’s 30% wider than the 120-degree field-of-view found on most ultra-wide-angle lenses in newer smartphones, such as the iPhone 11 Pro.The resulting image can be de-warped using a new distortion correction filter in Moment’s Pro Camera app (Android, iOS). The de-warping feature is available in the iOS app today and the feature will make its way to the Android app ‘in the next few weeks.’Below is a sample video captured with the new Fisheye 14mm lens:The Moment Fisheye 14mm lens costs just $89.99 for the first 48 hours, after which it will jump up to $119.99. It will work with Moment's line of M-series cases, which include options for a handful of iPhone, Pixel, OnePlus and Galaxy devices. You can order yours now and find out more information on Moment’s website.These add-on lenses are pretty bad compared to native lenses. I even have the Zeiss ones, still not sharp enough on a big screen. (But then again the phone cameras themselves aren't the greatest on big screens..)Also, they're only usable with the optical image-stabilization turned off. It's hilarious watching the optical image stabilization shift the point-of-view around with the external lens attached, as if the eye was straining to see the edges.With the EOS M6 Mark II, Canon has taken its midrange mirrorless game up a notch. Offering the highest-res APS-C sensor on the market, 4K video, super-fast burst shooting and comfortable ergonomics, the M6 II is compact and a real pleasure to shoot with. Get all the details in our full review.The PowerShot G7 X Mark III doesn't stray from the formula that made its predecessors well-liked, at least on the outside. Its feature set, however, has been greatly improved, with live YouTube streaming being the highlight.The Fujifilm X-Pro3's new viewfinder, new screen and titanium construction all make for an appealing camera, but perhaps only for a certain type of photographer.Weighing in at just 249g, the Mavic Mini fits in the palm of your hand. You give up a few features in exchange for that tiny size, but we still found it to be a solid performer.The Epson V600 is a reasonably priced scanner aimed at analog film shooters. It's fairly easy to operate and capable of decent image quality, but still easily bested by scans from our local photo lab.Whether you're looking for a toddler-proof rugged camera or something for an older child learning about photography, we've identified several options that won't break the bank.The holiday season is upon us. If you're looking for the perfect drone for yourself, or to gift someone special, we've selected a handful of models at every price point.A question frequently asked on the Internet is 'what's the best DSLR?' In this buying guide we've answered that question – but also whether it's the right question to be asking in the first place.What's the best camera for shooting landscapes? High resolution, weather-sealed bodies and wide dynamic range are all important. In this buying guide we've rounded-up several great cameras for shooting landscapes, and recommended the best.Whether you make a living out of taking professional portraits, or are the weekend warrior who knows their way around flashes and reflectors, you'll want a camera with high resolution, exceptional autofocus and a good selection of portrait prime lenses. Click through to see our picks.The new add-on smartphone lens features a 170-degree field of view and uses a unique bi-aspherical lens design that Moment claims result in sharper images.The fully-manual lens offers the equivalent of a 70mm lens on a full-frame camera. The future firmware updates will add a LOG picture profile option and the ability to record Raw video over HDMI to recorders like the Atomos Ninja V. We tried out five popular printing services to find out which offers the best quality, price and turnaround time. The winner was Printique – here's why.We're looking for a Front End Engineer, Software Development Engineer and Senior UX Designer to help us shape the future of DPReview.One-roll pre-measured kits to become available from the new Tetenal 1847 company, for those wanting a single dose of C-41 or E6 chemistry. A kit for paper is also on the way, as is tablet-form chemicalsFacebook details how its machine learning technology analyzes billions of Instagram images in real-time to help users discover new content.You'll soon be able to annotate your images using Google Photos. The feature is rolling out now to users around the globe. British tripod manufacturer 3 Legged Things has introduced new stills/video tripods with a host of new features including the ability to replace the full-size carbon fiber legs with mini legs for low-level shootingPeak Design has updated its Everyday lineup with upgrades to its existing lineup, as well as a number of new bags and slings for your camera gear.With the EOS M6 Mark II, Canon has taken its midrange mirrorless game up a notch. Offering the highest-res APS-C sensor on the market, 4K video, super-fast burst shooting and comfortable ergonomics, the M6 II is compact and a real pleasure to shoot with. Get all the details in our full review.Peak Design has relaunched its Everyday line of camera bags and we got our hands on version two of the backpack. Changes are subtle but meaningful and include better straps, updated zippers, new hardware and a new shape.In the eight-minute interview, Addario talks about her extensive coverage of conflict zones, as well as life, death and the ongoing pursuit of journalistic truth. Whether you're looking for a toddler-proof rugged camera or something for an older child learning about photography, we've identified several options that won't break the bank.The holiday season is upon us. If you're looking for the perfect drone for yourself, or to gift someone special, we've selected a handful of models at every price point.This week Chris and Jordan compare four popular mid-range APS-C mirrorless cameras: the Canon M6 II, Nikon Z50, Sony a6400 and the Fujifilm X-T30. Which one is right for you?Is it the most aesthetically-pleasing solution? Probably not, but it gets the job done and does envoke a sense of nostalgia. The firmware updates are somewhat minor, but do add new support for a pair of lenses, add new custom settings and address a number of issues.Adobe has explained in a blog post that it will add new features to the iPad version of Photoshop by the end of this year and in 2020.Use your existing smartphone as an underwater camera that runs a dive computer at the same time with this new Kickstarter campaign for Diveroid.For those times when your latest lunch needs the best light possible without having to whip out the whole studio setup. A California tourist wanted to take a photo on the Las Vegas strip. He lost control of his drone, which took off and landed a few feet away from an active runway at McCarran International airport.Leica has added new features and functionality to its mobile companion app, FOTOS. Version 2.0 adds new Lightroom CC integration and new features specifically designed for iPadOS.B&H Photo spokesperson Jeff Gerstel has shared a detailed statement in response the New York Attorney General's accusations that it 'defrauded' over $7M in sales tax.Have you ever looked at your smartphone or GoPro and said, "I wish my camera could stabilize an image like that?!" Chris explains the limits of electronic image stabilization.The Canon RF 70-200mm F2.8 IS is a true feat of engineering. When fully retracted, the lens measures just 146mm / 5.8in. We've been eager to try it out ever since its announcement – and it's finally here.Firstlight is a new premium camera app capable of Raw capture, HDR, fine-tuned exposure control and more.The report claims Sigma is 'actively working on an RF-mount lens roadmap' that is set to be announced in 'early 2020.'The vulnerability is extensive, potentially allowing unauthorized users to gain access to photos, videos, audio, location and more through a little trickery in Google and Samsung's camera apps. This marks the first time a dedicated camera battery has ever been included in a first-party case from Apple and shows the importance of the new triple-camera array on the latest iPhone 11 models.