This post contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. We may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. For an explanation of our Advertising Policy, visit this page.Reader Questions are answered twice a week by TPG Senior Points & Miles Contributor Ethan Steinberg.Whether you’re a parent looking to help pay for your children’s living expenses or a business owner trying to streamline your company’s spending patterns, you may want to add an additional user to your credit card account. TPG reader Kevin wants to know what the difference is between an authorized user and an employee card …
		I’m trying to add additional cardholders on my small-business credit card and it says “request employee cards.” Is that the same as adding an authorized user?	For more TPG news delivered each morning to your inbox, sign up for our daily newsletter.While the terminology is different between business and personal credit cards, there isn’t a huge difference between adding an authorized user on your personal credit card account or an employee card on your business account. In both cases, you’ll ultimately be responsible for any charges that are made on the card so make sure you only give it to someone you trust, and consider putting a spending limit on the card if your issuer allows you to do so.Beyond that, the only real differences mirror the differences you’d normally find between personal and business credit cards. Most business cards (including employee cards) don’t report to your personal credit report, so having these cards won’t affect your credit score. Meanwhile, adding a friend or family member as an authorized user on your personal credit cards is one of the fastest ways to boost their credit score. Additionally, some business cards might include expense-management tools which you can use to better manage how your employees spend on their cards.Related: Credit cards with the greatest value for authorized usersThere isn’t much of a difference between employee cards and authorized user cards. If you have a personal credit card you’ll add authorized users, and if you have a business card you’ll add additional employee cards. Just make sure to do so thoughtfully, as you, the primary account holder, will be on the hook for all charges made.Thanks for the question, Kevin, and if you’re a TPG reader who’d like us to answer a question of your own, tweet us at @thepointsguy, message us on Facebook or email us at info@thepointsguy.com.Featured photo by Hero Images/Getty Images.
WELCOME OFFER: 60,000 PointsTPG'S BONUS VALUATION*: $1,200CARD HIGHLIGHTS: 2X points on all travel and dining, points transferrable to over a dozen travel partners*Bonus value is an estimated value calculated by TPG and not the card issuer. View our latest valuations here.Editorial Disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airlines or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.Disclaimer: The responses below are not provided or commissioned by the bank advertiser. Responses have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by the bank advertiser. It is not the bank advertiser’s responsibility to ensure all posts and/or questions are answered.Many of the credit card offers that appear on the website are from credit card companies from which ThePointsGuy.com receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). This site does not include all credit card companies or all available credit card offers. Please view our advertising policy page for more information.Editorial Note: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airlines or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.The credit card offers that appear on the website are from credit card companies from which ThePointsGuy.com receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). This site does not include all credit card companies or all available credit card offers. Please view our advertising policy page for more information.Editorial Note: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airlines or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.