
For more than a decade, Britons have relied on Mysociety's Theyworkforyou to find out who represents them in Parliament (as well as the regional assemblies), find out what those people are doing and saying, and to get in touch with their lawmakers and their fellow constituents to hold them to account.

Theyworkforyou was revolutionary when it launched and remains revolutionary today -- it's literally the best civic/political engagement tool I've ever seen, and there has never been a time when Britons needed a tool like this more. 

Today, more than 300,000 people rely on Theyworkforyou every month. The project is a nonprofit and relies on small-money, individual donations to sustain it.

Now, the Mysociety team is planning a heavy year to come for Theyworkforyou, including the heavy post-election work of setting up new MP profiles, making it easier to show when an MP changes parties (suddenly much more common!), more explanatory detail on votes, and a ton of behind-the-scenes maintenance. 

They're looking for £25,000, and as of this writing they've got about £5,000 with 23 days to go. I just chipped in.


As an independent service, TheyWorkForYou can do things the official UK Parliament site can't or won't. For example:

*    MP voting records summaries are one of the most used features on TheyWorkForYou – these are unlikely to ever be provided by an official service, as it requires manual reviewing and categorising of votes.
*    Email alerts, so you don’t have to come to the site to see what your MP is saying or how they voted, or when a subject you’re interested is mentioned: it drops straight into your email inbox instead.
*    The latest updates from the Register of Members Interests are shown on each MP’s profile – so that you can easily see information about any financial interest your MP has, or benefit they receive.
*    Votes are discoverable by commonly known names, such as ‘bedroom tax’ (rather than ‘Spare Room Subsidy’) and ‘fracking’ (rather than ‘hydraulic fracturing’). 
*    We make it easier to follow debates by highlighting who’s speaking, and allow you to search and link to them, so you can share precisely what someone said, via email, Twitter or Facebook.
*    A searchable archive of debates means that TheyWorkForYou is a rich, accessible and searchable historic resource – so you can find mentions of any topic, in debates as recent as yesterday or as far back as 1919.

 Help TheyWorkForYou make sense of Parliament  [Theyworkforyou/Crowdfunder]

In TrojDRL: Trojan Attacks on Deep Reinforcement Learning Agents, a group of Boston University researchers demonstrate an attack on machine learning systems trained with "reinforcement learning" in which ML systems derive solutions to complex problems by iteratively trying multiple solutions.		Back in 2010, I did book-tour appearance in Seattle with a great indie band called "Pillow Army," whose music I'm still listening to today; in 2013, Pillow Army's frontman Tim Franklin had started recording angry, atheist Christmas carols and now he's got a whole band devoted to the genre: The X-Misses, whose music is a […]		SRSLY Wrong is a "research-based comedy podcast" run by a pair of Canadian fellas with a background in radical politics, occupy, and the Pirate Party; in a three part series, hosts Aaron Moritz and Shawn Vulliez; in a series of three long podcast episodes (1, 2, 3), the pair elucidate and elaborate a utopian vision […]		
“Craft” is a buzzword that gets thrown around a lot these days, but what does it actually mean? Sadly, it’s all too easy to fake craftsmanship when looks are all you have to go by. On the other hand, you know from the first cut whether you’re handling a good chef’s knife or not. And […]Wireless speakers have been out on the market for a while now, and while they’re popular, most people get them for convenience. Sure, it’s better than listening to music on your phone, but they don’t really carry the weight of an audiophile’s expectations. The VIZIO SP30-E0 SmartCast™ Crave Go™ Wireless Speaker is definitely out to […]We know that boutique baristas have introduced a lot of mad science when it comes to brewing, but believe us when we say there’s nothing like a good pour-over coffee. As brewing methods go, it’s not that complex but still not the kind of thing you can do (let’s say) at the office before work. […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support