Brand: Damien Hirst x VansModel: Sk8-Hi and Slip-OnKey Features: Both the Sk8-Hi and Slip-On are optioned in three colorways, each featuring a signature design by artist Damien Hirst.Release Date: December 6Price: TBCBuy: Vault by Vans at 219 Bowery in New York City and the Palms Casino Resort at 4321 W Flamingo Road in Las Vegas.Editor’s Notes: Vans has teamed up with renowned artist Damien Hirst and Las Vegas’ Palms Casino Resort for a new collaborative collection featuring the Sk8-Hi and Slip-On. The project is meant to celebrate art as well as Vans’ commitment to inspiring nonconformists.“It’s fabulous to be collaborating with Palms and Vans on this project,” says Hirst. “I’ve always loved Vans and the artwork works brilliantly on these shoes. I can’t wait for people to see them. It’s amazing for an artist to have the sort of freedom Palms and Vans have given me.”Featuring six sneakers in total, the collection finds a selection of Hirst’s most recognizable works, including spots, butterflies, spin paintings, and skulls, decorating the two classic Vans silhouettes.The Slip-On arrives in three colorways, one in cool grey with butterflies and a signature element from one of Hirst’s iconic spin paintings. The second iteration finds colored spots covering the right shoe — inspired by Hirst’s spot paintings — and the left done up in Vans’ signature checkerboard print. The final Slip-On showcases a Hirst spin skull design.Also available in a trio of colorways, the Sk8-Hi is offered in canvas with an all-over spot pattern, in addition to the aforementioned butterfly design and the spin skull design. Each take on the Sk8-Hi comes with a custom footbed.Damien Hirst’s Vault by Vans collection releases December 6 exclusively the Vault by Vans store at 219 Bowery in New York City and the Palms Casino Resort at 4321 W Flamingo Road in Las Vegas.To stay updated on everything happening in the sneaker world, follow @Highsnobietysneakers on Instagram, check our sneaker release date calendar, and subscribe to our sneaker chatbot on Facebook to receive lightning quick updates to your inbox.
			Not NYC, not LA.
		Before You Continue…For the best experience possible, we and our partners collect usage information and use cookies to show you relevant advertising. To do this, we need your consent and confirmation that you are 16+ years old. You can find more details and opt out at any time in our Privacy PolicyTo stay up to date with all our drops, sign up for our Shop Newsletter
Newsletter sign up
