








        Hollis Johnson/Business Insider
      

Updated on 12/1/2019 at 3:22 p.m.Cyber Monday is here, and Amazon is discounting its devices once again. You'll find Kindles, Fire TV Sticks, and plenty of Echo speakers on sale, including devices there were just recently released a couple of months ago.Besides controlling your smart home, an Echo speaker lets you play music, make voice calls (and video calls on Echo Show devices with displays), and more — all by using the Alexa voice assistant.If a smart speaker is what you're looking for, check out these Cyber Monday Echo deals below. The biggest savings are on the Echo, Echo Show 5, Echo Show 8, Echo Show, Echo Dot, and Echo Dot Kids Edition.The third generation of the original Echo speaker has improved sound quality, thanks to Dolby technology. It also comes in more colors and has a softer design that makes it look nice in any home. Check out our review.Not too big and not too small, the brand-new Echo Show 8 is the perfect in-between size. With an 8-inch screen, this Amazon smart display does everything that the larger Echo Show does, including video and voice chat, play music from popular services, smart home control, and more, all through Alexa. The Echo Show 8 won't ship until December 8, but you can still purchase this great deal right now.The most affordable Echo smart speaker gets even cheaper. At this price, you can stock up on a couple or more and spread them throughout the house. The Echo Dot is our pick for the best affordable smart speaker.Amazon is also discounting the new Echo Dot with Clock. It's just like a regular Echo Dot, except it displays the time — no need to summon Alexa for that info. The LED can also show temperature and a countdown clock.The Echo Dot Kids Edition is based on the regular Echo Dot in terms of specs, but it has extra features designed for children to operate and a colorful exterior. There are parental and privacy controls, including the ability to set time limits and shut the mic off. The content is also streamlined for kids: Songs with explicit content are filtered, and Alexa picks age-appropriate music and stories when asked. It comes with a year of free access to FreeTime Unlimited, Amazon's library of kids' content.The largest version of the Echo Show has a 10.1-inch display in a redesigned frame that looks sleeker. It's ideal for bigger rooms like the kitchen or living room. You can watch shows, listen to music, make video calls, see info like the weather report, and control your smart home devices. It's our overall pick for the best Alexa smart display.Part alarm clock, part smart speaker, the Echo Show 5 is the perfect bedside companion. You can do all the same things with the Show 5 that you can do with an Echo speaker, but it's also a smart display, so you can make video calls using the 5.5-inch screen, check on the baby monitor, or watch a show on Prime Video. It's our pick for the best budget smart display with Alexa.Want more bass out of your third-gen Echo speaker? Get two of them and add the new Echo Sub to create a 2.1 stereo setup. Now, you can listen to Spotify, Pandora, Apple Music, Amazon Prime Music, or whatever choice of music service you prefer, with better higher-quality sound. The Echo Sub also works with the third-generation Echo Dot and second-generation Echo.Some people like to show off their Echo devices, but if you would rather have something more inconspicuous, this plug-in Echo speaker is for you. The new Echo Flex is a speaker that plugs directly into a wall outlet but has all the speaker functions that a regular Echo would. You can also get it with a motion sensor or night light, which plugs into the USB port below.The Echo Input is an easy way to turn any speaker into a smart speaker. Simply connect to a Bluetooth speaker wirelessly or by using the 3.5mm audio cable and connecting it to the headphone jack or auxiliary input. Then, just call up Alexa as you would with any Echo device.With Echo devices, you can use Alexa to control a smart home. But if your smart home device doesn't isn't Alexa-enabled, plug it into a smart plug. With an Amazon Smart Plug, you can turn any standard outlet into a smart one. Just plug in a lamp, for example, and you can tell Alexa to turn it on and off. At $5, you can smarten up any outlet quickly and easily.* It's just $5 when purchased as a bundle with Echo Dot, Echo Dot with Clock, Echo, Echo Show 5, or Echo Studio. To get the deal, go to the product page for any of these devices and choose the "with $5 Smart Plug" Configuration.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.