
 See allHide authors and affiliations
Root nodules harbor nitrogen-fixing bacteria. Engineering plants to form root nodules could reduce fertlizer use.Nitrogen is critical for plant growth but must be acquired from the soil in reduced forms such as nitrate. Often this occurs through biological fixation whereby nitrogen-fixing bacteria, such as rhizobia, live symbiotically in root nodules of legumes. Theories concerning the evolutionary origins of legume root nodules range from them being highly modified stems or lateral roots (1, 2). The latter origin is supported by rhizobia inducing lateral root-like nodules in non-leguminous Parasponia by triggering pericycle cell divisions, which normally produce lateral roots (3). However, in legume roots, rhizobia also induce cortical cell divisions, triggering many morphological differences to lateral root organogenesis (2). Two studies—by Soyano et al. (4) on page 1021 of this issue and by Schiessl et al. (5)—report key regulatory components of lateral root organogenesis to have been hijacked in legumes to coordinate nodule formation. This could open avenues to engineer nitrogen fixation in nonlegume crops.Root nodule organogenesis in legumes is initiated when rhizobia first colonize young root hairs (2). Nodulation factors released by rhizobia trigger root hair curling, cortical cell divisions that produce the nodule primordia, and infection thread formation (see the figure). The infection thread is a root-derived conduit that enables rhizobia to colonize dividing cortical cells, where they differentiate into nitrogen-fixing bacteroids and provide ammonium to the plant host. Root nodule organogenesis therefore represents a complex interplay between plant and bacterial symbiotic partners. Genetic studies have proved instrumental in dissecting the underlying regulatory mechanisms and signals controlling this important developmental program.One of the first nodule regulatory genes identified in legumes was NODULE INCEPTION (NIN) (6), which encodes a transcription factor that is required for rhizobia infection and nodule organogenesis (7). NIN promotes the expression of two NUCLEAR FACTOR-Y (NF-Y) genes which, when co-expressed with NIN, can activate cortical cell division during nodule development and also alter development of lateral roots. This provided a tantalizing link between lateral root and nodule organogenesis, but it remained unclear whether these root processes shared a common regulatory program. An observation that suggested that lateral roots and nodules develop through distinct regulatory programs was the contrasting roles of the phytohormones auxin and cytokinin. It was well documented that auxin accumulated at the sites of both lateral root and nodule primordia (8). By contrast, cytokinin promotes nodule formation in a NIN-dependent manner (7, 9) but antagonizes lateral root formation (10).Soyano et al. and Schiessl et al. dissected the nodule gene regulatory networks operating in two model legume plants, Lotus japonicus and Medicago truncatula, using distinct approaches. Soyano et al. adopted a chromatin immunoprecipitation–based approach to pinpoint NIN target genes that are expressed following rhizobial infection of lotus roots. Each NIN target was overexpressed with NF-Y and only one gene, LATERAL ORGAN BOUNDARIES DOMAIN 16 (LBD16), was able to promote cortical cell divisions. Schiessl et al. probed gene regulatory networks operating during lateral root initiation and nodule formation. This revealed that lateral root and nodule initiation programs overlap considerably. Common genes included many associated with auxin and cytokinin action, genes known to be involved in nodule formation, such as the ARF family of auxin response factors and the YUCCA family of auxin biosynthesis genes, as well as genes previously associated with lateral root development. Soyano et al. and Schiessl et al. analyzed mutant alleles in these common genes and found that only LBD16 is required for both lateral root and nodule formation.LBD16 encodes a transcription factor, first identified in the commonly used model plant Arabidopsis thaliana, in which it is expressed in the pericycle and promotes asymmetric cell divisions in which daughter cells gain distinct identities that are required for lateral root morphogenesis (11). Soyano et al. revealed that LBD16 expression in legume roots induced the expression of reporter genes in dividing cortical and pericycle cells. This observation raises a critical question: Does LBD16 expression in dividing cortical cells provide the key step in creating populations of dividing pericycle and cortical root cells that form root nodules? Soyano et al. showed that the presence of a NIN-binding site in an LBD16 intron led to its expression in nodule primordia. Moreover, these authors observed that the NIN-binding site was conserved in many species of legumes, but absent in nonlegume species. This raises the fascinating possibility that evolution of this NIN-binding site in an ancestral legume genome caused LBD16 to be ectopically expressed in cortical cells. This event would have caused a gene regulatory network, normally restricted to pericycle cells and controlling lateral root development, to also be expressed in the cortex and induced by cytokinin (through NIN), leading to nodule formation (see the figure).This “co-option” model helps answer a long-standing question relating to the morphological differences between lateral root-like nodules in nonlegumes versus root nodules in legumes. Lateral root-like nodules originate from dividing pericycle cells, whereas root nodules arise from dividing pericycle and cortical cells. This morphological difference may simply reflect the evolution of NIN-binding sites in the LBD16 intron sequence of legumes that are missing in nonlegumes. It would be intriguing to test whether introducing NIN-binding sites in the Parasponia LBD16 sequence is able to convert their lateral root-like nodules to true root nodules.Stepping beyond nodule formation and even plant science, the question of how new structures emerge is an enduring conundrum that has intrigued evolutionary biologists. It is known from several model systems that the expression of key transcription factors has been fine-tuned through evolution to favor the development of one organ over another. For example, in blind cavefish, sonic hedgehog genes ShhA and ShhB are amplified locally to negatively control eye development, but their overexpression increases jaw and taste bud development (12), providing an elegant example of how gene regulatory networks can be modified to promote the development of one organ rather than another. The discovery of enhanced LBD16 activity in cortical cells takes this phenomenon to a different level: Whether there is another example by which misexpression of a transcription factor in another tissue has hijacked an existing gene regulatory network to create an entirely new organ is unknown.Lateral roots are derived primarily from dividing pericycle cells. Root nodule organogenesis initiates after rhizobia trigger root hair curling, cortical cell divisions, and infection thread formation. Despite being regulated by distinct hormone signals, lateral root and root nodule regulatory networks have common components.The apparent co-option of the master regulator LBD16 raises the intriguing possibility that the number of genetic changes required for nodule formation in legumes may be relatively small. If so, it might be feasible to engineer legume-style nodules into other crops. Nodule organogenesis is also widely spread across four orders of flowering plants, and comparative genome sequencing studies recently revealed that inactivation of core nodulation genes, including NIN and NF-Y, have likely led to the loss of nodule-forming ability in different species (13, 14). In principle, this is good news because crops in these orders may require limited gene editing to reengineer their nodule-forming abilities. If either reengineering strategy could be achieved, it promises a revolution in agriculture, with symbiotic bacteria potentially lessening the hundreds of millions of tonnes of nitrogen fertilizer applied to crops annually (15), generating major energy savings (more than 3% of the global carbon budget is required for nonbiological nitrogen fixation) and aiding food security in countries with limited access to fertilizers.This is an article distributed under the terms of the Science Journals Default License.Vol 366, Issue 646822 November 2019 Thank you for your interest in spreading the word about Science.NOTE: We only request your email address so that the person you are recommending the page to knows that you wanted them to see it, and that it is not junk mail. We do not capture any email address.Log In with your AAAS Login Please log in to add an alert for this article.Log In with your AAAS Login By Anthony Bishopp, Malcolm J. BennettScience22 Nov 2019 : 953-954 The evolutionary origin of legume root nodules that help them grow is revealedBy Anthony Bishopp, Malcolm J. BennettScience22 Nov 2019 : 953-954 The evolutionary origin of legume root nodules that help them grow is revealedVol 366, Issue 6469Table of Contents© 2019 American Association for the Advancement of Science. All rights reserved. AAAS is a partner of HINARI, AGORA, OARE, CHORUS, CLOCKSS, CrossRef and COUNTER.
Science ISSN 1095-9203.