
 See allHide authors and affiliations
Excessive alcohol drinking, a component cause of more than 200 diseases, is a leading cause of preventable death (1). The loss of control over alcohol drinking to the point of compulsion—consuming alcohol despite negative consequences—is the defining characteristic of an alcohol use disorder (AUD) (2). Almost 20% of adults worldwide engage in heavy alcohol drinking episodes in their lifetime (3), and only half of heavy drinkers in the United States are able to cut down or quit drinking when faced with adverse health consequences of their drinking (2). Neither the individual differences that drive compulsion nor the circuitry of compulsive alcohol intake are well understood. On page 1008 of this issue, Siciliano et al. (4) show individual differences in the activity of neurons that comprise a newly described brain circuit in mice during early alcohol experience. The activity of these neurons predicts the escalation of alcohol drinking to compulsive intake.Why are some people able to control their alcohol drinking, but others are compelled to drink despite health, personal, and/or social consequences? People drink to excess for a variety of reasons, but as the animal model of Siciliano et al. demonstrates, not all heavy drinkers become compulsive. Some have suggested that a genetic predisposition underlies the likelihood to develop compulsive alcohol intake (5, 6), and the authors take a major leap forward to show individual differences in compulsion, specifically the consumption of bitter and highly aversive, quinine-adulterated alcohol, at the level of neuronal activity. By using changes in intracellular calcium concentrations in neurons as a proxy for neuronal electrical activity during alcohol drinking, Siciliano et al. identified clusters of neuronal activity around the time when mice licked tubes of alcohol. These data provide exquisite detail on brain and behavior relationships that underlie the individual differences in compulsive alcohol drinking in mice.The alcohol drinking–associated neuronal activity occurred in a circuit between the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and dorsal periaqueductal gray (dPAG) of the brain stem. Multiple lines of evidence from animal models suggest a role of the PFC in compulsive alcohol drinking (5–8). The PFC lies just behind the forehead in humans and is responsible for executive functions, namely judgment, decision-making, and behavioral control. These functions are impaired in drug and alcohol addiction, especially in severe AUD (9). Siciliano et al. capitalize on this knowledge as a starting point for examining compulsion, led by a previous detailed anatomical study of both retrograde and anterograde tracers that revealed that this mPFC-dPAG circuit represents aversive stimuli in the brain (10). The PAG, best known for its role in pain, has reciprocal connections with many addiction-relevant regions, including the PFC (11). Recent discoveries extend the role of the PAG to punishment and aversion signals, both of which are aspects of compulsion (11). Thus, it is not surprising that this mPFC-dPAG projection has a role in alcohol compulsion.Siciliano et al. found that the inhibition of this mPFC-dPAG circuit promotes compulsive drinking (see the figure). Prior studies posit that excitation of cortical-striatal pathways is required for compulsive drinking (7, 8). The authors make a compelling case: Mimicking cell activity dynamics (lick-initiated photoinhibition of mPFC-dPAG projections) yielded a compulsive drinking phenotype. Conversely, lick-initiated photostimulation of mPFC-dPAG neurons acted as a punishment and produced lasting decreases in alcohol consumption. The authors argue that inhibition of this pathway disrupts the transmittance of an aversive signal, which would diminish punishment of responding and/or reduce the animal's avoidance behavior. Accordingly, activation of this circuit signals that something is aversive, which then promotes avoidance (10). Therefore, if alcohol inhibits this pathway, it should also disrupt transmittance of aversive signals. Indeed, alcohol has antipunishment effects when injected into animal models just before an aversive event such as foot shock or stimulation of the PAG (12, 13). Alternatively, this circuit may be underactive in compulsive mice, an effect that was not assessed directly in the study. Identifying the specific mechanisms of the reactivity of this circuit to alcohol and/or its potential constitutive underactivity in the compulsive phenotype are critical next steps to translate these findings into drug targets for AUDs.Prior studies have examined how manipulating neural activity affects behavior once compulsive drinking has emerged, whereas Siciliano et al. observed individual differences in mPFC-dPAG neuron activity before compulsive drinking occurred. Notably, greater inhibitory activity in mPFC-dPAG neurons during early alcohol experience was only predictive of compulsive drinking after—and not before—a period of binge-like alcohol consumption. Thus, compulsive drinking may result from an interaction between a predisposition for alcohol-induced inhibition of cortical-to-brainstem signaling (reduced aversive processing) and experience-dependent enhancement of cortical-to-accumbal signaling (reward processing) (5). This point leads to the question of whether the inhibition of mPFC-dPAG neurons during alcohol consumption strengthens with repeated experience and/or dysfunction from alcohol-induced toxicity (9).A greater proportion of inhibitory (blue) versus excitatory (red) responses of the dorsal periaqueductal gray (dPAG)–projecting medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neurons during early alcohol experience correspond to binge drinking–induced compulsive alcohol consumption.Despite the exciting results of Siciliano et al., there are important caveats. As with any animal model, will the work translate to the human condition? Some researchers question whether quinine- or foot shock–resistant drinking in rodents actually models compulsion observed in AUDs (14). In humans, the negative consequences of drinking are rarely concurrent with drinking nor purely sensory but are dissociated by hours, days, or weeks from the drinking episode. Nevertheless, what matters is whether these models have predictive validity. Time will tell whether these “compulsive” alcohol drinking models are useful in identifying drug targets that are effective in humans with AUDs. With only three modestly effective drugs approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat AUDs, this discovery is a needed leap forward—a newly-discovered circuit behind the essence of alcoholism in which to direct drug discovery efforts.This is an article distributed under the terms of the Science Journals Default License.Correction (22 November 2019): A typographical error was corrected in the figure explainer. And in the fourth paragraph, in the sentence beginning “Indeed, alcohol has…”, “mice” was replaced with “animal models”.Vol 366, Issue 646822 November 2019 Thank you for your interest in spreading the word about Science.NOTE: We only request your email address so that the person you are recommending the page to knows that you wanted them to see it, and that it is not junk mail. We do not capture any email address.Log In with your AAAS Login Please log in to add an alert for this article.Log In with your AAAS Login By Kimberly Nixon, Regina A. MangieriScience22 Nov 2019 : 947-948 Individual differences in aversive stimulus processing may explain compulsive alcohol drinkingBy Kimberly Nixon, Regina A. MangieriScience22 Nov 2019 : 947-948 Individual differences in aversive stimulus processing may explain compulsive alcohol drinkingVol 366, Issue 6469Table of Contents© 2019 American Association for the Advancement of Science. All rights reserved. AAAS is a partner of HINARI, AGORA, OARE, CHORUS, CLOCKSS, CrossRef and COUNTER.
Science ISSN 1095-9203.