A time of use based electric meterThere’s been very little coverage of something that you might imagine would be a big change in the world of electric cars.   Northern California is definitely the world’s EV capital (outside China) with the most cars on offer and sold, and of course it is the home of Tesla.  The primary electric utility there is PG&E.    Recently, PG&E has mostly been in the news for turning off power to avoid starting fires, and starting them anyway.Owners of electric vehicles (EVs) in California can and should sign up for a special EV power pricing plan.  This plan offers cheaper power at night, and very expensive power in the peak part of the day in the later afternoon and evening.   While all California power prices are high, the summer off-peak price of the original plan was only 1/4 of the peak price, and around half the price most customers would pay with one of the regular and non time-based plans.  If you’re charging an electric car at home, it’s the obvious pick in almost all cases.November 1, PG&E changed that off-peak price.  Previously it ran about 13 cents/kwh off-peak, and as much as 48 cents/kwh on-peak.   Off-peak times ran from 11pm to 7am on weekdays, and 9pm to 3pm on weekends.    Any EV owner with a typical “level 2” charger will fully charge their car in well under those 8 night hours on all but the most extreme driving days.The new off-peak price is 16 cents/kwh, about 25% more, but now the off-peak runs from midnight to 3pm – 15 hours instead of 8.   Since most EV owners don’t need 15 hours, the result is they pay more to charge their cars, offset by a lower price on things like air conditioning, clothes drying and all-day loads before 3pm.The new plan has advantages for people who charge at “level 1” with ordinary 115v plugs.  While level 1 has just enough power to just restore the 40 miles/day the average car drives in an 8 hour night, on those days of more driving, owners had to pay a bit more or let their car stay low and recover the next night or on the weekend.   Turns out that almost always works, unless people have a long commute.   With the new plan, cars that don’t leave in the morning can recover more.   But it’s a pretty minor benefit.While some Tesla owners get free supercharging on road trips, they otherwise pay around 28 cents/kwh ... [+] -- quite a bit more than the price at home.What’s of note is the lack of attention.  A 25% spike in gasoline prices would cause a major uproar.  Elections are lost and won over issues like 10 cent/gallon gasoline taxes (just 2.5%.)For EV owners, this means electricity went from 3.25 cents/mile to 4 cents/mile.  Nobody really cares about amounts like this.    Even when people have to fill up at public charging stations like Tesla Superchargers (6.5 cents/mile) or some of the more expensive charging networks (up to 13 cents/mile) they really don’t care very much.At 10,000 miles a year, the difference is only perhaps $70/year, and thus nobody is up in arms.    Indeed, since today EVs are bought by above average income people, they could probably tolerate a fair bit more.      Though a 10 cent/gallon tax would only amount to $30-$40 more for most gasoline car owners.It may simply be the fact that the car’s electricity price is buried in the larger monthly electricity bill, and not paid at the pump like gasoline.   EV owners can elect to install a 2nd electric meter just for their car (and get the cheaper old price if they do) but this does not make financial sense because an extra meter is expensive.I founded ClariNet, the world's first internet based business, am
Chairman Emeritus of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, and a director
of the Foresight Institute. M...