whither_apophis: The last original idea an American car company had was to ditch the manual crank starter, and even that was a tough sell to the board433: "I never understood why GM's response to the rise of Tesla with the Bolt. Tesla showed the industry that what America wanted out of an EV was sharp, luxury design in a status-driven package. GM took stock of it, and instead put a not-quite-compact hatchback into showrooms."No, Tesla showed that you can sell exclusivity that is centered around new technology to status-minded people once again. America as whole wants a vehicle that costs less, looks good enough, and doesn't cost a lot to operate. Expect a lot of growing pains.It also shows that you can write a hatchet job of a sentence and your editor won't notice.Marksrevenge: The thing about Teslas is that they're desirable cars. Their tech and performance and styling would still be desirable in a gas car.Bolt is a decent EV compared to what EVs used to be but not a really fast, fun, tech-loaded, and good looking car in general.yarnothuntin: Mustangs are chick carsyarnothuntin: Mustangs are chick carsMarksrevenge: The thing about Teslas is that they're desirable cars. Their tech and performance and styling would still be desirable in a gas car.Autoerotic Defenestration: Marksrevenge: The thing about Teslas is that they're desirable cars. Their tech and performance and styling would still be desirable in a gas car.[Fark user image image 850x296]ZMugg: whither_apophis: The last original idea an American car company had was to ditch the manual crank starter, and even that was a tough sell to the boardIIRC, at the time, women were starting to drive and an electric starter meant cars could be easily be driven by them, increasing sales.I may be wrong.mrmopar5287: ZMugg: whither_apophis: The last original idea an American car company had was to ditch the manual crank starter, and even that was a tough sell to the boardIIRC, at the time, women were starting to drive and an electric starter meant cars could be easily be driven by them, increasing sales.I may be wrong.Cadillac invented it for luxury.PunkTiger: [regmedia.co.uk image 475x210]GM was always known to have cold feet when it came to the EV market.bhcompy: 433: "I never understood why GM's response to the rise of Tesla with the Bolt. Tesla showed the industry that what America wanted out of an EV was sharp, luxury design in a status-driven package. GM took stock of it, and instead put a not-quite-compact hatchback into showrooms."No, Tesla showed that you can sell exclusivity that is centered around new technology to status-minded people once again. America as whole wants a vehicle that costs less, looks good enough, and doesn't cost a lot to operate. Expect a lot of growing pains.It also shows that you can write a hatchet job of a sentence and your editor won't notice.There's truth to this.  Tesla has a very small sliver of the market and has an overvaluation of a tech company in a very tough industry, and they still struggle with the assembly line(if it could be all automated, Toyota would've done it already).  Tesla is the iPhone without the sales numbers.  That said, it helps that it's a great looking vehicle with a LOT of very good amenities to go along with it(which is a big part of where GM failed with the Volt)That said, you need something sexy to sell to bring the eyes to the rest.  The Volt and the Bolt were alright cars, but they weren't sexy.  This electric Not-Mustang is just Ford testing the waters and tuning their hardware.  The real seller for them will be the electric F-150, but only if they can do it right.  Ford was late to the game, but they're making massive investments into it now because it's part of future, much more than CNG or hydrogen ever will be among consumer or consumer platformed fleet vehicles.In the end, GM has always been a bean counter brand in the post-1972 era, and the Bolt and the Volt were bean counter cars.yarnothuntin: Mustangs are chick carsbhcompy: 433: "I never understood why GM's response to the rise of Tesla with the Bolt. Tesla showed the industry that what America wanted out of an EV was sharp, luxury design in a status-driven package. GM took stock of it, and instead put a not-quite-compact hatchback into showrooms."No, Tesla showed that you can sell exclusivity that is centered around new technology to status-minded people once again. America as whole wants a vehicle that costs less, looks good enough, and doesn't cost a lot to operate. Expect a lot of growing pains.It also shows that you can write a hatchet job of a sentence and your editor won't notice.There's truth to this.  Tesla has a very small sliver of the market and has an overvaluation of a tech company in a very tough industry, and they still struggle with the assembly line(if it could be all automated, Toyota would've done it already).  Tesla is the iPhone without the sales numbers.  That said, it helps that it's a great looking vehicle with a LOT of very good amenities to go along with it(which is a big part of where GM failed with the Volt)That said, you need something sexy to sell to bring the eyes to the rest.  The Volt and the Bolt were alright cars, but they weren't sexy.  This electric Not-Mustang is just Ford testing the waters and tuning their hardware.  The real seller for them will be the electric F-150, but only if they can do it right.  Ford was late to the game, but they're making massive investments into it now because it's part of future, much more than CNG or hydrogen ever will be among consumer or consumer platformed fleet vehicles.In the end, GM has always been a bean counter brand in the post-1972 era, and the Bolt and the Volt were bean counter cars.Want the rest of the Farking story? TryMore threads. More community. More Farking.Sign up for the Fark NotNewsletter!Links are submitted by members of the Fark community.When community members submit a link, they also write a custom headline for the story.Other Farkers comment on the links. This is the number of comments. Click here to read them.You need to create an account to submit links or post comments.Click here to submit a link.Also on FarkSubmit a Link »
        Copyright © 1999 - 2019 Fark, Inc | Last updated: Nov 19 2019 12:52:33
Contact Us  |  Report a bug/error msg  |  Advertise on Fark  |  Terms of service/legal/privacy policy
 Runtime: 0.523 sec (522 ms) 