
Published on November 18th, 2019 |
                by Cynthia ShahanNovember 18th, 2019 by Cynthia Shahan The Tesla Fremont factory is priming the nearby roads for another highly sought-after Tesla vehicle, the coming Model Y. Word is that the Tesla Fremont factory is busy putting together an assembly line for the Model Y. It has also been testing them on streets in the surrounding area — and sometimes further away.Development isn’t just taking place at Tesla’s global HQ, though. We now know that the Model Y will also be produced in Germany, near Berlin.— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 12, 2019Tesla, around the world, is prepping for the release of what is widely expected to become the Silicon Valley automaker’s most popular model.It’s hard to believe the Tesla Model S only arrived on the scene in 2012. Since that time, we’ve seen Tesla’s Model S P100D take the Ludicrous Crown for performance, consistently darting to the finish line like a rocket and leaving the best ICE cars in the dust, and their drivers in awe. It seems like ages ago that Tesla lovers enjoyed those first spy shots of the Model 3, and Model X. They win their own share of races, or can simply move smoothly with the moonlight while you gaze through the Model 3’s glass roof and the X’s supersplendulous windshield.Enjoying the glass roof inside the Model 3. Image thanks to the Fosse family, CleanTechnica.Now the hot new Tesla everyone wants to see a bit more of is the Model Y (and the Cybertruck). For those who can’t get enough of the spy shots, here’s a 5 second video with a great view:— Teslaconomics (@Teslaconomics) November 1, 2019Iqtidar Ali points out that this Model Y Performance is sporting the “wind turbine” rim design, one of the three original wheel design patents registered for the Model 3. He notes that the wheels were originally seen on the Model 3 on the night it was unveiled — March 31, 2016. Now they reappear after a long absence. Perhaps Tesla will offer them on the Model Y.Wind turbine wheel on a red Tesla Model 3 prototype at the car’s unveiling. Photo by Tesla.Related: 
 
Follow CleanTechnica on Google News.
It will make you happy & help you live in peace for the rest of your life.Tags: California, Elon Musk, Europe, Germany, Tesla, Tesla Model 3, Tesla Model S, Tesla Model Y, USCynthia Shahan Cynthia Shahan started writing by doing research as a social cultural and sometimes medical anthropology thinker. She studied and practiced both Waldorf education, and Montessori education. Eventually becoming an organic farmer, licensed AP, and mother of four unconditionally loving spirits, teachers, and environmentally conscious beings born with spiritual insights and ethics beyond this world. (She was able to advance more in this way led by her children.)Advertise with CleanTechnica to get your company in front of millions of monthly readers.

The content produced by this site is for entertainment purposes only. Opinions and comments published on this site may not be sanctioned by, and do not necessarily represent the views of Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc., its owners, sponsors, affiliates, or subsidiaries.CleanTechnica is the #1 cleantech-focused news & analysis website in the US & the world, focusing primarily on electric cars, solar energy, wind energy, & energy storage.© 2019   Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc.