
      Updated 
    
      November 19, 2019 17:29:44
    
An accused terrorist has told a court that he was inspired by the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles when he concocted a fake plan to use non-existent tunnels to blow up buildings in Melbourne where "leftist" groups met. Phillip Galea, 35, is on trial for plotting or planning terrorist attacks on Trades Hall in Carlton, the Melbourne Anarchist Club in Northcote and the Resistance Centre in the CBD.Mr Galea is giving evidence in the Supreme Court of Victoria, telling the jury he is not a terrorist and repeatedly saying that he never intended to harm people or buildings.He told the court the plan uncovered by police was "fake" and was designed to root out a "dog" informer who Mr Galea believed had infiltrated the right-wing group Reclaim Australia, which he was part of in 2014. Jurors were told he was inspired by reading about the catacombs and watching the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles cartoon when he told the suspected informer about a plan to use underground tunnels in Melbourne to access the targeted locations.The court heard such tunnels did not exist. During the trial, the court has heard mercury, cattle prods and other materials were found at his home, as well as a "patriot's cookbook" document, which outlined ways to prepare for an attack. The court heard he almost blew up his own home while doing a series of "free energy" experiments in 2014 and 2015. He described himself as a self-made electrical engineer and denied his actions were intended to cause violence. Instead, he said he had a deep interest in science, in particular the works of 19th-century inventor Nikola Tesla.  He was quizzed by defence lawyer Felicity Gerry. Ms Gerry: Did you ever intend to use your scientific knowledge to harm people?Mr Galea: No.Ms Gerry: Did you intend to use violence against people?Mr Galea: No.Ms Gerry: Did you intend to attack or destroy any building?Mr Galea: No.Ms Gerry: Did you intend any form of terrorist attack?Mr Galea: No. He told the court documents taken by police mentioning "massacres" and "buildings and destruction" were satirical. "I intended it to be taken as a joke. People reading it were to think they were reading comedy," Mr Galea said.The court heard he had written about weaknesses in the structure of the Trades Hall building, in particular that it was 100 years old.The court heard he had taken photos and collected maps of the targeted sites. He said he was doing investigative journalism, seeking to find out where leftist groups who had burned Australian flags were located to "expose" them.  He said his plans to make smoke bombs were simply to disperse members of anti-racism group Antifa, who were disrupting Reclaim Australia rallies during 2014 and 2015. Those rallies had targeted Muslims in Australia. The court heard that Mr Galea secretly recorded conversations with police, who he accused of refusing to respond to the "criminal" activity of Antifa and other groups. He believed his phone was being tapped, that he was being followed by police and that they had installed surveillance devices at his property. "I felt trapped, scared, concerned and extremely angry," he said. Mr Galea also spoke at length about Islamic extremism, saying he was angered by coordinated attacks in France in November 2015. He said he was partly motivated by a fear of the establishment in Australia of Islamic housing estates with Islamic schools and mosques like those he said were in France. "Allowing this to happen in Melbourne would lead to these kinds of attacks here," he said.He denied he was a right-wing extremist."How's your mental health," Ms Gerry asked him."Never been better," he responded.  The trial continues.
Topics:
courts-and-trials,


	
	law-crime-and-justice,


	
	prisons-and-punishment,


	
	terrorism,


	
	unrest-conflict-and-war,


	
	melbourne-3000,


	
	vic,


	
	northcote-3070,


	
	carlton-3053

    First posted 
    
      November 19, 2019 14:13:36
    



  More
 stories from Victoria
If you have inside knowledge of a topic in the news, contact the ABC.ABC teams share the story behind the story and insights into the making of digital, TV and radio content.Read about our editorial guiding principles and the standards ABC journalists and content makers follow.Learn moreFollow Annabel Crabb and Waleed Aly as they take you through the most surprising and exciting insights into modern Australia, revealing the issues Aussies are talking about.
        By Clint ThomasMeg Lanning went from having no female role models in cricket to having millions of girls look up to her.
        By Claudine Ryan and Tegan TaylorJust because you don't live in the bush doesn't mean you're immune to the health effects of bushfires. Here's how to manage the risks. 
        By the Specialist Reporting Team's Alison BranleyNurses and carers ask why they cannot stay in caring roles and still move towards equal pay with male managers.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.

AEDT = Australian Eastern Daylight Savings Time which is 11 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)
