Register or Login with GoogleAdd swipe gestures to any Android, no rootMake your phone easier to use with one hand, no rootThe best way to access XDA on your phoneAn app store for independent developersA sweet, feature-filled launcher with a beautiful UX.XDA’s official marketplace for buying and selling techPremium videosLate last year, Google updated Maps to show nearby electric vehicle charging stations. Maps will show you information about the business where the EV charging station is located, what kind and how many ports are available, the charging speeds, and other information including reviews, photos, and more. Charging station information is pulled from Tesla, Chargepoint, SemaConnect, EVgo, Blink, Chargemaster, Pod Point, and Chargefox. While these services provide Google Maps a huge number of EV charging stations to show on the map, the driver still needs to use a separate app to pay for charging. That could change in the near future, however, as Google Maps 10.30 for Android has added strings that suggest it will support making payments straight from the app.An APK teardown can often predict features that may arrive in a future update of an application, but it is possible that any of the features we mention here may not make it in a future release. This is because these features are currently unimplemented in the live build and may be pulled at any time by the developers in a future build.Pay for ChargingNew in version 10.30 are the following two strings, part of a larger set of strings pertaining to electric vehicles, that describe adding payment methods to the user’s electric vehicle profile.Electric Vehicle Profile, Finding Compatible PlugsAs mentioned, Google Maps is preparing to let you update your profile with information on your electric vehicle. You’ll be able to add your plugs so you’ll only see compatible charging stations when searching in the app.These features are not yet live in the Google Maps app for Android. We’ll probably see an announcement from Google in a few days or weeks, though. The last time Google Maps was updated with a new EV-related feature was back in April when they added real-time availability of charging ports. With new electric vehicles on the way, the Maps app is long overdue for new functionality.Thanks to PNF Software for providing us a license to use JEB Decompiler, a professional-grade reverse engineering tool for Android applications.
Want more posts like this delivered to your inbox? Enter your email to be subscribed to our newsletter.Editor-in-chief on the XDA-Developers Portal. I have a keen interest in the Android framework and software development, but I'm willing to dip my toes into a variety of subjects.
Please direct media inquiries to [email protected] You can also find me on Twitter @MishaalRahman, or on Reddit at /u/MishaalRahman.Receive the freshest Android & development news right in your inbox!
 

XDA Developers was founded by developers, for developers. It is now a valuable resource for people who want to make the most of their mobile devices, from customizing the look and feel to adding new functionality.Are you a developer? | Terms of ServiceThis site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.Copyright © xda-developers. Hosted by Leaseweb