Computings' decades have brought innovation, competition and controversy. What will the next decade ... [+] bring?This last decade in the world of technology was exciting, innovative and turbulent, all at the same time. I would argue that in the last forty years of computing, these last ten years had the most technological advances of any decade. We saw tremendous innovation, the spectacular good and bad influence of social media, the significance of smartphones in personal and business lives and a mad dash for all enterprises to begin a digital transformation. Businesses began to move completely from an analog and client-server past to an all-digital and cloud future. In the last decade, it became clear that companies like Google, Facebook, Twitter and others became gatekeepers of tons of personal data from their customers. Today those entities are under major governmental scrutiny over the true ownership of that data and the privacy and security issues surrounding that data. And they are now being pressured to breakup some of these companies to keep their total position of influence in check. The last decade also made it clear that technology would play a major part in powering a phase of economic growth that dwarfs any other period in history in terms of technology's role in global GDP.The first two decades of personal computing began in 1977 when Apple introduced the Apple II and followed shortly thereafter with IBM’s PC, laid the foundation for the PC industry’s growth. The PC had a major impact and redefined business productivity around the world. By 1999, the PC industry was selling close to 350 million PC’s a year worldwide and the computer and IT industry overall was bringing in about $900 billion in total revenue. Starting in 2000, that decade saw the birth of the iPod and the iPhone. The IT industry began a bigger shift to client/servers becoming the backbone of IT shops. It was also the decade where companies like Oracle, SAP and similar back-end software firms accelerated their role in providing the client/server software to run all phases of a company's business and shifted IT away from localized software. It also saw the rise of CRM-based software used to manage customer sales and customer services and accelerated the growth of companies like Salesforce. By 2008-2009, all of these back-end software behemoths began shifting their software away from client/server applications and launched the IT world towards cloud-based architectures and solutions.While the decade of 2000-2009 saw tremendous growth of tech and its far-reaching effect on the world, this last decade from 2010 to 2019 extended its reach even further. Although Facebook started in 2004, it was only in the last ten years that it grew to have over 3 billion users and became one of the most influential tech companies in the world. Likewise, Twitter started in 2006, but its real growth and influence were felt in this decade. If you were a fortune-teller in 2009, could you have imagined the following things that would happen in the next decade of tech?These are just a few of the major evolutions in tech that were developed and influenced our world over this last decade. Given my propensity to make my predictions for tech in a new year, I was tempted to do a piece on my forecasts for the next decade. But as I looked at this list shared above, I think it would be difficult for anyone to forecast the next decade, other than to suggest that we most likely will have self-driving cars by 2030. Or that AR, VR and Mixed Reality could play a major role in delivering the next major personal computing platform. Instead, I have decided to reach out to the CEOs and top leadership from some of the major companies in the tech world and ask them for the visions and goals for their companies over the next decade.I will soon begin a series called “Looking Back, Looking Forward” where I review specific companies' successes and even failures over the last ten years and ask these firm’s leadership what they hope to achieve in the next decade.I have two criteria for when I write these articles. The first is that I have covered them as part of my job over the last decade. Since I have been covering most tech companies as an industry analyst since 1981, most of the companies I will profile easily fit into that bucket. The other thing I want for these articles is to accurately portray the leadership of these companies' vision, goals and challenges for the next decade. To that end, I plan to interview these leaders personally to get their views and ask them directly about what they want their companies to accomplish over the coming decade.Being at the end of one decade gives us a chance to reflect on what happened in the world of tech over the last ten years. It also allows us to evaluate where the world of tech is today and what it might have in store for us over the next decade. During the next month or so I will be speaking with key leaders in tech and hearing what they think the next decade of computing will hold for them and what key trends will dominate the next ten years. I have been recognized as one of the leading industry consultants, analysts and futurists, covering the field of personal computers and consumer technology. I have been ...