The Mazda3 has been declared the 2019 Women’s World Car of the Year. The compact model was voted by a panel of female jurors from 30 different countries, including two from the UK, who weighed in different factors such as aesthetic appearance, practicality, safety, environmental footprint and value for money.The big winner was announced at the 2019 Dubai International Motor Show, over the weekend, and aside from the golden medal in the World Car of the Year category, it was also voted Women’s World Family Car of the Year. The Mazda3 managed to beat some very well established rivals from the upper classes such as the Audi E-Tron, Tesla Model 3 and BMW 3-Series. Review: Is The 2020 Mazda3 More Than Just A Pretty Face?In the Women’s Urban Car of the Year, the Kia XCeed was declared the big winner. The sporty-looking compact hatchback with a jacked-up ground clearance builds on the new-gen Ceed family, has longer front and rear overhangs and is wider. It also adds plastic body cladding and a sloping roofline, whereas the interior has mostly been carried over and includes an infotainment system up to 10.25-inch in size and a 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster. Kia has also bagged the Women’s Green Car of the Year title with the Soul EV.As for the other three winners, these are the BMW 8-Series, Porsche 911 and Range Rover Evoque. The German GT won the Luxury Car category, whereas the 911 was declared the Performance Car of the Year and the British high-riding vehicle won the SUV/Crossover of the Year.  Posted by Women's World Car of the Year on Saturday, November 16, 2019i love that mazda 3 HB in mazda red….The headline photo shows previous Gen, i guess the award winning is the current oneyeah, it’s a girly car!! wish Mazda made it more masculine.its universal… all genders can drive it – all 69 genders!Are there seriously 69 genders?Guys, I have bad news :'( we need to talk.I know, such a shi tty think to do. Read my meaning about it above or under..Women? Ohh, only them can drive a Mazda, not a big mad car… Such a shi tttyy world… Why not a gender neutral car of the year.,,Kia should just merge Ceed and Forte and make it global. I live in Canada and would love to lease the Proceed.What the HELL is women’s world car of the year? This happened in Dubai? Do such awards really exist in 2019?It seems like a ‘real world’ poll of women would likely pick a CUV. Try loading in a car seat into a compact sedan and then always putting a small child into that seat, not fun. Women usually value a higher seating position as well as a larger vehicle to feel more insulated in case of a crash. Obviously, these are generalities, but my own anecdotal observations.WTF is this crap. SMH this world is effeminate as hell.Dubai should be the old world, not some weird abnormal lifestyle that the west heavily pushed over here. SMFHThe most comprehensive list of all the world and North American premieres at the 2019 LA Auto Show.Severe crash tests conducted by DEKRA revealed that EVs are as safe as ICE-powered vehicles.The series is executive-produced by Vin Diesel and focuses on Tony Toretto, Dom’s young cousin.Ferrari believes there are many who can afford its cars but don’t know how good they are – and the Roma will show them.One year after the sedan, Renault has decided to revamp the estate version of its mid-size family car.The new Buick Encore GX will slot between the smaller Encore and the larger Envision .Seat’s new-gen Leon ST estate will probably be unveiled next year.Novitec’s tuning kit for the Lamborghini Aventador SVJ includes revised aerodynamics, new suspension and exhaust.SEAT e-Scooter is the brand’s first proper electric scooter, does 0-50 km/h in 3.8s.Prices for the 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio start at $39,345 and $41,345 respectively.