What does it take to succeed in business and investing?Differentiation is among the key ingredients. You need to
offer a product that differs from the competition in a way that clients
recognise as added value.If you want to beat the market as an investor, the first
thing you need to do is something different from all other investors. Or as
Howard Marks, CFA, put it in The
Most Important Thing: “You can’t do the same things others do
and expect to outperform.”But every differentiation is an act of creativity, which most people believe peaks at a young age. The myth of the innovative businessperson is driven by stories about young geniuses who revolutionise their fields. Elon Musk is the youthful entrepreneur who tore up the manual on how to build cars and moved electric vehicles into the mainstream. And now he is about to bring space travel to the masses. And in the investment world, John C. Bogle launched the first index mutual fund in 1976 and went on to revolutionise how we invest.But this image of young, disruptive innovators who reinvent
their industries is incomplete. As David W.
Galenson observes, the media and creativity research have focused
too much on these so-called conceptual innovators. Conceptual
innovators tend to be very young and enter an industry and turn it upside down.
They are not beholden to convention or to how things are supposed to work. And
ample research indicates that this kind of creativity does decline with age.Yet the vast majority of innovations are not made by
conceptual innovators but by experimental innovators. These innovators
work inductively rather than deductively. A conceptual innovator like Elon Musk
may look at an industry as a whole and deduce what a
specific car — his Tesla — is going to look like and what technology is
needed to best achieve these goals.In contrast, experimental innovators look at the world
around them and learn how things work in practice. Then, based on this
experience, they make adjustments and test them in real life. This methodology
means that their innovations become more successful as their experience grows.Charles Darwin is a prominent example of an experimental
innovator. He published his theory of evolution at the age of 50 after decades
of investigation and research. In general, experimental innovators deliver
their best work when they’re older, often when they are well above 50. Why?
Because as Darwin said: “I have been speculating last night what makes a man a discoverer of undiscovered things, and a most perplexing problem it is. Many men who are very clever — much cleverer than discoverers — never originate anything. As far as I can conjecture, the art consists in habitually searching for causes or meaning of everything that occurs. This implies sharp observation and requires as much knowledge as possible of the subject investigated.”Translation: if you are passionate about a subject, then acquiring more experience will make you more and more creative because your passion will drive you to learn more about the field. You will constantly ask questions about why things are done the way they are. This is why so many passionate investors become better over time. They learn from every failed investment and then improve their investment process. Step by step, they innovate their way to the top.But passion is crucial. If people become demotivated by
failure or lose interest in their jobs and burn out, the drive to ask
questions and innovate dies.Howard
Marks, CFA, is one such experimental
innovator in the investment world. While Marks was always a good investor, his
Oaktree funds were not magazine cover stories coming right out of the gate.
Marks wrote his now famous newsletters for years in obscurity. It was only with
the long-term success of Oaktree and the consistently high returns provided by
the funds that the spotlight shone on Marks.Similarly, Clifford Asness founded AQR in the late 1990s
based on Eugene Fama and Kenneth French’s research on factor returns. The AQR
team gradually improved its investment process and progressed one tiny
innovation at a time. Today, AQR is among the world’s largest and most
successful hedge fund firms.What these stories and the research into experimental
innovation tell us is that many businesses fail to tap into a massive source of
competitive advantage and differentiation: human capital – experienced and
still passionate employees. These people can help the business create
differentiated products and services because they know the products and
services better than anyone.And that offers a compelling lesson. Businesses and investors would do well to decouple themselves from the dominant cult of the conceptual innovator and seek to leverage a crop of experimental innovators too often taken for granted: their employees.For more from Joachim Klement, CFA, don’t
miss Risk
Profiling and Tolerance: Insights for the Private Wealth Manager, from the CFA Institute Research Foundation, and sign up for his regular commentary at Klement
on Investing.If you liked this post, don’t forget to subscribe
to the Enterprising Investor.All posts are the opinion of the author. As such, they should not be construed as investment advice, nor do the opinions expressed necessarily reflect the views of CFA Institute or the author’s employer.Image source: Getty Images / CFA Institute archive 