Since Tesla CEO Elon Musk first uttered the word, we’ve avoided mentioning what seemed to be a nerd-fantasy placeholder name for the automaker’s upcoming electric pickup. Unfortunately, trademark applications reveal Tesla might actually make use of the word that dare not speak its name: “Cybertruck,” or, even worse, “Cybrtrk,” because vowels aren’t cool in Silicon Valley.Speaking personally, it’s an unfortunate turn of events.That badging comes complete with an alien letter structure resembling something stamped on a silvery piece of alloy recovered from a New Mexico crash site. See below:Tesla plans to reveal its upcoming model in Los Angeles on Thursday, not far removed from that city’s auto show. It’s an uncharacteristic move for Musk, who traditionally shuns the trade show circuit. Unlike new offerings from other manufacturers, we’ve only had a couple of glimpses of the vehicle, and even these were provided by Tesla itself. Chalk that up to the fact that in Teslaland, buzz comes first, while actual vehicles trundle along much later.Little is known about the so-called Cybertruck, minus past promises from Musk that it will boast seating for up to six occupants and a driving range of 400 to 500 miles, which outclasses other Teslas built to date. Being a larger vehicle than the company’s sedans and SUV, battery size will also outclass the truck’s stablemates.Design, Musk promises, will be of the futuristic variety, which is only fitting for a truck with the anticipated name “Cybrtrk.” The reveal date, as Musk painfully teased, has everything to do with the setting of 1982’s Blade Runner.Deutsche Bank analystÂ Emmanuel Rosner wrote in a note Monday that investors will have their eye on design, knowing that too-futuristic styling could turn off truck buyers who are in the market for a propulsion switch. The jury’s out on just how small the overlap between “traditional truck buyer” and “Tesla truck buyer” actually is.As for production and an availability date, that’s something that also brings up the rear at Tesla. The Model Y crossover revealed earlier this year won’t reach customers until late 2020 at the earliest, and few expect to see a Tesla-badged pickup enter driveways before the end of 2021. By that time, plenty of competition will be on hand from the likes of Rivian, Ford, and perhaps even GM.[Image: Tesla]StupidWhat a frknawfl name.Bet the Tesla mechanics will still arrive in Ford pick-up trucks.Brilliant as Tesla predicts the future of its product:C’est bricked!N’est pas?X wasn’t the kiss of death.  I can’t see how the Y is different from the S. Either semi or brodozer should finish them off though.
Or I am wrong.  A friend of mine said that people will
buy anything if you make it. A good name cannot help a bad product but a
bad name can hurt.Even total failures make it with enough promotion (smokeless Premier cigarets from 45 yrs. ago lost between .3B and 1B, now we have vaping; Kotex and Kleenex were abject failures at first)All it would take to make all of these questionable battery projects, including airplanes, work beautifully would be MAJOR development in battery technology.  that has not been shown to be easy for a hundred years.@ mor2bz“A good name cannot help a bad product but a bad name can hurt.”I dunno, a lot of people buy Land Rovers and Minis and Jeep CUVs, and I can’t imagine it’s the stellar reputation of the product itself.Rumored: new factory in Wales.  https://www.walesonline.co.uk/lifestyle/fun-stuff/14-welsh-place-names-no-6263550I maintain, this will be the third electric pickup to market at best, behind Rivian and Ford.Seems consistent with the totally over-the-top cartoon-masculinity approach that other makers are taking with pickups.I mean if you take out all of that functionality and usability all the others offer (based on teasers…we haven’t seen it nor do we actuall know when you’ll be able to take delivery)You must be logged in to post a comment.