"Sir, you crashed into my car. You're in your car, your car is running, the engine's running, you still have the car in reverse, and you're touching my car. Sir."This video, apparently depicting teens driving around and yelling mostly non-problematic compliments at pedestrians through a bullhorn, recalls the halcyon days of 2014.Meet Maria Elena Gimeno, facing felony charges after vandalizing a parked Tesla. Teslas have cameras on the wing mirrors (two of nine!) and Gimeno was filmed by them. She turned herself in after the footage went viral. The crime took place in the parking lot of Legacy High School on Saturday morning while Alan Tweedie […]This footage of a garage on a busy road reminded me that a) life is fleeting and b) it’s high time to get those dashcams installed. young kid in a truck hauling a trailer got distracted and went off the road and plowed into my friends truck. This is in spicewood TX. The vintage car […]
Vinyl is officially back. People are hearing the proof behind the initial “retro” excitement: that records really do have a richer sound. And if you haven’t switched to old-school records for serious listening, it’s a new golden age. Why? Because quality turntables like the Altec Lansing ALT-500 are finally available to a market other than […]Between all of our apps, streaming devices, Bluetooth speakers, and energy-sucking decorations, paying for utilities each month can be…brutal. In fact, the average household spends roughly $70 a month on the water bill alone. That number might not seem terribly significant, but when you add it up, that’s $840 a year — a pretty significant […]Seems like no matter what kind of wireless earbud you buy, you’re sacrificing something: Sound for longevity, battery life for durability, the list goes on. Finally, it seems like the tech is starting to come together for the full package in a few newer models. Case in point: These PaMu Slide Bluetooth 5 In-Ear Headphones. […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support