Home » Cars » Mazda 3 is the 2019 Women’s World Car of the Year
In Cars, International News, Mazda				 / By Anthony Lim				 / 19 November 2019 10:56 am				 / 17 comments The new Mazda3 has been named as the 2019 Women’s World Car of the Year, edging out a competitive field that included the likes of the Audi e-Tron Quattro, G20 BMW 3 Series, Tesla Model 3 and Volvo S60. In addition to being named as the Supreme Winner, the fourth-gen Mazda 3 also took home the Family Car of the Year gong at the COTY awards, which was held in Dubai last weekend alongside the Dubai International Motor Show. Other category winners were the Kia XCeed, which took the Urban Car award, and the Kia Soul EV, which was named as the Green Car of the Year. The BMW 8 Series won the Luxury Car title, while the Performance Car award went to the Porsche 911. Meanwhile, the new Range Rover Evoque was named as the SUV/Crossover of the Year.Established in 2010, the Women’s World Car of the Year is voted on by a panel of female judges from over 30 different countries, who are asked to vote according to criteria women use when buying a car. These include
safety, value-for-money, aesthetic appearance, storage space, child–friendliness, ease-of-driving, colour, sex appeal and a vehicle’s environmental footprint, elements that appeal very strongly to women.The new Mazda 3 was launched in Malaysia in July, and is available in three variants (1.5, 2.0 High and 2.0 High Plus) and two body styles (sedan and hatchback) locally. Research Mazda Cars at Related Cars for Sale on CommentsNice front headlights, curvy design & alluring back ..I really hope Proton can learn from Mazda how to design something stunning and mind-blowing in order to win a design award. Until today, Proton hasn’t win any design award as Proton designs are game overWe don’t need Proton to design something so difficult and costly to repair like Mazda cars.
Proton owners are typically lower on the income scale so they cannot afford to repair if their cars are so stunning design but takes ‘000 of RM to do simple body repairs.
Proton is the rakyat’s car so it is better they stick to their current designs which are easier and cheaper to repair. Mazda is a game over brand here, selling so few thanks to their difficult to repair bodies, many prospective owners got scared and bought other cars which is easier to repair.
So we appreciate that Proton is taking our cost of repair into consideration, they really are the rakyat’s car. Thank you Proton.Agreed! People’s car must be easy to repair, kudos to Proton for their simpler design in catering for this criteria. Even bengkel bawah pokok ceri can do body repairs on a Proton.Case in point: Proton body touch up spray. RM600.
Mazda Soulful Red body touch up spray. RM 2000.How can Proton users afford for Mazda repair works?There goes the male market segment :)This sissy soft hatch lemau. true blue hot blooded males get Suprima tebo hothatch  . periodThe award is for both sedan and hatchback.
Not selectively for the hatchback 3.Both the Mazda 3 Hatcback and Sedan that get awarded
‘Womens World COTY’. Congratulations.sudah tentu, bukan Jantan Award..
hehe, shy shy..Where Men’s World Car of the Year??see: Proton X50.Womenfolk would shout SEXIST if they had did that. ;-)“These include safety, value-for-money, aesthetic appearance, storage space, child–friendliness, ease-of-driving, colour, sex appeal”
WTH….something is wrong with the voting criteria? Who in the world vote car for sex??Congratulations, “Women” COTY. Hahaha…
For men who have bought this, can give to your wife or girl friend as xmas gift.People’s creativity is beyond your imagination nowadays.Make MPS / Mazdaspeed 3 pleaselook so hot need more powerAdd a commentYou can either post as a guest or have an option to register. Among the advantages of registering is once a name has been registered, a guest cannot post using that name. If you have an account, please login before commenting. If you wish to have a profile photo next to your name, register at Gravatar using the same e-mail address you use to comment.
Your Name

required 
Your Email

required 
Comment


 

Most Read Stories5th November 20196th November 20198th November 201912th November 20198th November 201912th November 20198th November 20196th November 20196th November 20198th November 2019Copyright © 2019 Driven Communications Sdn Bhd. All Rights Reserved.