If you’re on your computer or phone for hours a day (and let’s be real—you are), you can keep things interesting with desktop wallpaper. If you want to go beyond what’s included in your operating system or old photos from your camera roll, you can find thousands and thousands of alternatives on the internet.So whether you love switching out beautiful desktop wallpaper or just want something minimal that you’re going to open windows over anyway, here are some of our picks for wallpaper.WallpaperStock makes our list because of its huge selection of free wallpapers across many categories. You can download wallpaper for specific mobile devices, screen resolutions, and social media platforms. While you can sort for the top wallpapers or use the random function, there’s no easy way to view by category other than searching for something specific and clicking through category tags.Plus, the site shows ads, which is a little distracting. But overall, the selection is worth a look.Social Wallpapering started ages ago with a Digg-like approach to create a user-curated collection of wallpapers, organized by quality based on user votes. The Social Wallpapering community may not be big enough to really get the wallpapers organized that way, but the collection of available images is huge and updated with new submissions fairly regularly.The sort-by-category function is a little wonky, but you can also upload your own images or create an account to save your favorites.

There are a few great desktop wallpaper sites out there, and many crappy ones—but a new one (to…DeviantArt is a huge community of artists and fans, and among the many things you can find on the site is a huge collection of wallpapers. It features everything from photos and illustrations to abstract digital art—even fantasy or fanart of your favorite movie, video game, or comic franchise. You can select a category, sort by newest or most popular, or search for something specific in the site’s massive database.You can’t filter specifically for resolution or display size, and the categories aren’t cut and dried, so it can be tricky to find exactly what you’re looking for. That said, it’s consistently been one of our favorite desktop web sites. Personalizing your desktop starts with customizing your wallpaper. Finding good wallpapers for…One of our favorite underrated desktop wallpaper sites, Desktop Nexus has a community of over a million users who have collectively uploaded and voted on nearly 1.5 million wallpapers. Everything at Desktop Nexus is neatly organized by category, and if you select one category, a wealth of subcategories opens up underneath it (and you can view them all here).When it comes to decorating your desktop with new wallpaper, you probably have some favorite…All of the wallpapers are organized by member votes, so you can sort by what’s popular or new or search for something specific. FYI: you have to be a member for at least a month or upload 25 of your own wallpapers in order to vote on others.HDWallpapers.net is updated daily with high-def photos, illustrations, and more. You can sort by featured, popular, or latest, browse based on category, or search for something specific. When you go to download, you can choose your specific mobile device, your computer screen resolution, or even a social media platform (like a Facebook cover photo).You don’t have to create an account to download wallpapers, but you can in order to upload or save your favorites.Wallhaven started out as a project to replace/rebuild/improve upon Wallbase, which is dead now but used to be one of our favorite wallpaper sites just because it scraped wallpapers from so many sources we also liked.The community is massive, the database is large, and once you have a free account, you can browse by tag or popularity (the Toplist option), filter for SFW images (or not), choose specific resolutions, or roll the dice with the Random function and see what you come up with. Best of all, the site has infinite scroll, so you don’t have to click through multiple pages to view more wallpapers.Another old (and well-loved) standard in the wallpaper community, IntefaceLift has long been a premier source of beautiful wallpapers of natural scenes, photos-turned-wallpapers, and more. Plus, the site deals in more than just wallpapers: like DeviantArt, there’s a huge community of people there making icon packs, system themes, and more.InterfaceLift will automatically detect your screen resolution and show you wallpapers accordingly—you can also sort by resolution or device. The site may not have the massive selection or scraped images from others on this list, and it isn’t updated as regularly, but you can see everything about the photos you download, including the cameras used to take them, who took them, and their comments.If you’re not interested in photos, abstract art, or other busy images for your desktop, Simple Desktops may be more up your alley. All of the wallpapers at Simple Desktops are fairly minimal and include patterns, text snippets, or iconographic images that look great and say a lot without saying much at all. They’ll hand-selected and curated because they’re attractive without being busy or distracting—which can be perfect if you want to dress up your desktop without standing out too much in an office or distracting yourself with what’s on it. There are plenty of great wallpaper resources, but it's hard to find a great image for your…Simple Desktops has options for mobile devices via Android and iOS-specific apps. There’s also a Mac desktop app. Finally, all of their images are sourced, so you can learn a little bit about the artist who made them too.You can put a beautiful image on your desktop, but what's the point if you have trouble reading all No discussion of wallpaper sites is complete without a stop by Digital Blasphemy, run since 1999 by friend of Lifehacker Ryan Bliss. Its beginnings go back to the early web as one of the first places to find really unique and interesting 3D art and unique wallpapers that weren’t photos. Today, its current iteration combines all of the things that made it great years ago with modern, up-to-date fantasy art, landscapes, sci-fi vistas, and natural scenes. Every week we give you a fresh batch of wallpapers to download in our Wallpaper Wednesday series,…Only a small selection of the wallpapers available at Digital Blasphemy is available for free—the real wealth of its catalog is hidden behind a $20/year membership plan (different tiers have more perks, and you can see them all here). Additionally, Digital Blasphemy has wallpapers for multiple monitors and mobile devices, and there are Digital Blasphemy apps for Windows, iOS, and Android.While all of the above are great sources for new wallpapers to dress up your desktop, sometimes the best sources are the ones you install on your computer and forget about, and just let the wallpapers come to you. Mac OS has a built-in wallpaper changer (Settings > Desktop & Screen Saver > Change picture) that cycles through Apple’s desktop images or photos on your computer.There are a ton of third-party apps, but John’s Background Switcher is one of our favorite wallpaper managers with a free Windows version and a paid option for Mac. While it’s great with your own downloaded desktops, it’s even better if you use the integrations with photo services (Flickr, Instagram, Pinterest, and Google Photos, to name a few) or RSS feeds and let the app do the downloading and switching for you.Windows' built-in wallpaper switcher is okay, but not spectacular. If you'd like to beef up your…Irvue for Mac integrates with Unsplash and can change your wallpaper at intervals ranging from 30 minutes to a month. Windows users can also go with DisplayFusion, which switches your desktop images based on customized profiles.There’s no way we could include all of our favorite wallpaper and desktop services on this list. If you still need more options, check out this post at Big Think, which has direct links to downloadable image archives of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Gallery, the Google Art Project, and other museums around the world. We’d also recommend a quick browse of Bing’s wallpaper gallery.Finally, if you’re specifically looking for dual or triple monitor desktops, we should give a special mention to Dual Monitor Backgrounds (DMB), which has been serving that need for years.This piece was originally published in 2016 and updated in November 2019 with the most current resources and information. Emily is a freelance writer based in Salt Lake City, UT.