Missed the WIRED25 Summit? Check out our conversations with CEOs, actors, authors, scientists, and engineers here. Make way for the future. Friday, WIRED25 returns to San Francisco for two days packed with forward-thinking talks and activities by some of the world’s most innovative and influential people.We’ll have climate activists and CEOs, actors and authors, scientists and engineers—plus a guy who can teach you to make the world's best paper airplane. (Check out the full list of speakers here.) If you can't make it to San Francisco, or if you're just not into crowds, don't worry. We’ve got all sorts of ways to participate from afar.The festivities begin at 10 am PT on Friday, November 8, with the WIRED25 Summit. This will feature conversations with WIRED’s editor-in-chief, Nicholas Thompson; the heads of LinkedIn, Cloudflare, and Instagram; and some of the young activists behind the historic climate action lawsuit Juliana v. United States, among many others. (Read on for the full event schedule.) We'll be livestreaming the entirety of this event above and on WIRED.com. You can follow along on social platforms as well. We’ll be streaming via Facebook Live, plus we’ll be live-tweeting on @WIRED and giving you behind the scenes looks and exclusive interviews on WIRED Instagram (look out for those IG Stories as well!).Saturday, November 9, is fam and culture day, with talks and immersive events with people like actor Chris Evans, sci-fi author N. K. Jemisin, and former Mythbusters host Adam Savage. Stay tuned to those aforementioned social accounts.In the meantime, you can catch up on everything that happened at last year’s inaugural event here.Below is the full schedule of Friday’s summit.(Note: These events are subject to change. Check the event schedule page for updates.)10:00 amNicholas Thompson, Editor-in-Chief, WIREDJeff Weiner, CEO, LinkedIn, with Nicholas Thompson, WIRED12:30 pm Break1:40 pm3:35 pm Break4:05 pmWIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.More From WIREDContact© 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18) and Your California Privacy Rights. Wired may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices