Black Friday and Cyber Monday are the biggest shopping events of the year. They're a good way to make a major dent in your holiday gift shopping or perhaps even treat yourself to something you've been eyeing. With Black Friday and Cyber Monday 2019 now behind us, we thought it would be fun to take a look at what Business Insider readers bought.Our readers' purchases told us a few things. Like, they're using tech in all sorts of ways to streamline their lives. Unsurprisingly, smart home device purchases, particularly from the Amazon Echo family, were toward the top of the list. And, they love streaming content. Services like Disney+ and Hulu made the list, as well as streaming devices like the Fire TV 4K. While this data tells us a lot about the types of products and services you're interested in, we still love it when you drop us a line at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com and tell us things you'd like to hear more about or are perhaps having trouble finding on your own.Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: Save $10 on an annual subscriptionJust one day after launching, Disney+ already had 10 million subscribers sign up for the service. The highly anticipated streaming service lives up to the hype, giving users access to thousands of Disney movies and shows they can stream ad-free. For Cyber Monday, new subscribers got $10 off an annual subscription. With all of the exciting new and vintage content, it's no wonder that the service was the most popular Cyber Monday purchase among Business Insider readers. If you missed the deal, you can still sign up for a week-long free trial. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: Save 20% sitewideYou spend almost a third of your life sleeping, so it's worth it to invest in pieces like a comfortable mattress, great bedding, and cozy pajamas — all of which you can find at Parachute. On Black Friday and Cyber Monday, our readers loved shopping Parachute's sheets, which come in airy linen, smooth sateen, or lightweight percale.You can read our review of Parachute sheets here. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: Limited-edition Tree Runner colorwaysWhile Allbirds didn't actually offer any discounts, the brand dropped three new colorways of its Tree Runners. The Tree Runners are made of eucalyptus pulp, a more sustainable textile that also provides a cooling, moisture-wicking effect. These limited-edition styles are the first patterned Tree Runners the brand has ever released. While Black Friday may be in the past, these styles are still available for purchase. If you're interested in a pair of your own, we'd recommend acting fast, as limited-edition Allbirds tend to sell out quickly. Read our full review of the Allbirds Tree Runners. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: Save 20% sitewideIt may seem odd to wax poetic about a pair of socks, but Bombas has achieved a status so cult-like that here we are, years later, still talking about how much we love them. From knee-highs to no-shows, every pair of socks is thoughtfully engineered to solve all of the common pain points associated with socks like heat-trapping fabrics and uncomfortable seams, among others. Not only are Bombas socks that good, but the company is doing good too. For every pair of Bombas bought, one is donated to someone in need. We're not surprised that our readers took advantage of the sitewide 20%-off deal. Find our full review of Bombas socks here.  Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $28 offThe Echo Dot is small but packs a punch with its sound quality and range of features. While there are many great options in the Echo family, the Echo Dot is a really solid value and our choice for the best affordable smart speaker. Use it to call, shop, play music, set a timer, and even control other smart home devices. If you need more convincing, nearly 80,000 people have given this convenient device a five-star rating.Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $51 offWith seven functions in one device, the Instant Pot is so versatile we think it's worth adding to your kitchen (because many of us have added it to ours). Our readers agreed with us this Cyber Monday. The Instant Pot Duo gives even amateur home cooks the ability to make everything from delicious soups to juicy meats to yogurts and more. The 6-Quart Duo is our favorite model for how it balances price, performance, and size. Six quarts is good for just about any space — it's big enough to make large batches. At just $50 right now, it's a great entry-point into the world of pressure cooking.  Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $100 offA clean home is important, but for most of us, vacuuming feels like a major time suck. A robot vacuum is a perfect solution — it cleans your floors and you don't even have to lift a finger. The iRobot Roomba 675 connects to an app on your phone so you can program the vacuum to clean your floors anytime, even when you're not home. It saves you time, effort, and it's pretty fun to watch it work its magic, too. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: N/AWe've touted the Repel Windproof as the best umbrella you can buy. Wirecutter and The Strategist have included Repel on their lists of the best umbrellas, too. The umbrella does its job of resisting water and wind well, plus it's pretty affordable. The umbrella wasn't on sale during Cyber Week, but we think it was a popular purchase because of the weather at the time.Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: A year of Hulu for $1.99 a monthHulu is one of our favorite streaming services — it's a great way to stay up to date on your favorite cable TV shows sans cable. There's a range of different Hulu plans — with or without advertisements; with special add-on channels; a bundle with Disney+ and ESPN — but the most basic starts at $5.99 a month. As a Cyber Monday deal, subscribers could save $4 and get the service for just $1.99 a month. At that price, we're not surprised this was such a popular deal. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: Save $25The Fire TV Stick brings all of your favorite streaming apps — like Netflix, Hulu, HBO NOW, and YouTube — together in one place, so you can conveniently stream all of your favorite shows and movies. The 4K Ultra-HD is an upgrade from the original version of the device and gives you a sharper, more vivid picture quality. This deal was so popular over Black Friday and Cyber Monday that it sold out, but you can pre-order now — it'll be back in stock on December 26. Read our full review of the Fire TK Stick 4K here. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $4.99 when bundled with select Amazon devicesA smart plug lets you control your outlets from your smartphone, whether you're in the living room or out running errands. It's compatible with Alexa if you want to go hands-free, and you don't even need a smart home hub to get started. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $45 offThe new Kindle Paperwhite is Amazon's bestselling e-reader. It's relatively affordable, lightweight, waterproof, has a high-resolution display, a backlight for reading, and of course, lets you hold millions of books in the palm of your hand. As one of the bestselling products among our readers on Amazon Prime Day, we're not surprised that our readers flocked to this $45 Black Friday discount too. Read our full review of the new Kindle Paperwhite here. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: Save 20% sitewideBrooklinen makes some of our favorite bedding — and we're not alone in feeling that way: The brand has over 40,000 enthusiastic five-star reviews. Our readers love Brooklinen too, using Black Friday and Cyber Monday to stock up on options like the classic percale, luxe sateen, and linen sheets. Right now, you can get 10% off your entire purchase at Brooklinen. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $100 offDNA test kits are becoming increasingly popular, so much so that we now even have the option to test the DNA of our pets. This fascination with discovering our roots explains why this deal on a 23andMe DNA kit — which also informs you of health predispositions — was a top seller among Business Insider readers.Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: Up to 20% off your entire orderMejuri makes dainty, fine gold jewelry that won't break the bank — especially with its Black Friday discount. There are plenty of swoon-worthy pieces on the site, but we're eyeing the zodiac collection, the Editor Hoops, and personalized signet rings for ourselves. Learn more about Mejuri here. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $40 offAn Echo speaker with a compact display, the Echo Show 5 is a great addition to any room. You can play your favorite music, watch Prime video, view security camera footage, and see Alexa's responses to any questions you may ask. With plenty of cool features and a small design that's suitable for any space, we're not surprised our readers loved this deal. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: First four months for just $0.99If you have Amazon Prime, Amazon Music Unlimited (the brand's music streaming service) is a great value. For Black Friday, Amazon offered the service for just $0.99 for the first four months. With a large catalog of songs and Echo compatibility, Amazon Music Unlimited is worth a try, especially at this great value. Learn more about Amazon Music Unlimited. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $12 off The Trtl Pillow is our favorite travel pillow around for its low profile, easily portable design and surprisingly substantial neck support. We're glad many of our readers picked up their own Trtl Pillow before the holiday travel season. You can still find this deal as well as discounts on the brand's other models right now on Amazon. Read our full review of the Trtl Pillow here. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $136 offVitamix makes some of the most powerful blenders around. Not only is the Vitamix 5200 great for classics like smoothies and shakes, but it can also make dressings, dips, batters, doughs, and even hot soups. While pricey, we think a Vitamix blender is worth the splurge, especially with a solid Black Friday deal, and clearly our readers agreed. Black Friday/Cyber Monday deal: $101 offA robot vacuum makes the most tedious chore (vacuuming) a breeze. Just connect to the app on your phone, program the vacuum to clean your floors, and go on with your day. This model is particularly great for houses with pets as it captures 99% of allergens, dust, and dander. Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.