Published: November 27, 2019 Updated: November 27, 2019 9:11 PM MST Filed Under:The press release reads more like a glowing endorsement than a firing announcement.On Wednesday, the Edmonton Eskimos relieved Jason Maas of his duties as head coach he had held since Dec. 14, 2015.“After four seasons, he leaves with a 39-33 regular-season record and 3-3 post-season record that includes three division final appearances,” the club noted in the announcement, which relieved the 43-year-old former quarterback who still had one season remaining on his contract.But the coach saw the writing on the wall, loud and clear, after a 6-3 start to the season ended with a 2-7 run over the back half to claim the sixth and final playoff spot as the crossover spot.In his final address to the media on Nov. 18, as the players cleared out their lockers at Commonwealth Stadium one day after losing the East Division final 36-16 to the Hamilton Tiger-Cats, Maas didn’t shy away from his share of the responsibility in a soliloquy that was as passionate as it proved to be prophetic in its tone.“I’ll say this, one thing I can control every week is the work I put in and the belief you instil in your players, the preparedness that you feel like you give your coaches, your plan you put in place and the things that you have to be proud of, the body of work you do, and then it comes down to execution at times,” he said. “Are there things I’d like to be better at? Absolutely, the things that I can get better at being a head coach, and I’m going to look at all those things.“But, I always say, I think the one thing I can control is how hard I work in the passion I have for this game, this organization. And that’s what I hang my hat on. And I feel good about that body of work. But ultimately do I want to improve? Do I want our team to improve? Absolutely. And you know, we’ll do our part. I’ll do my part and this offseason to make sure of that.”Sure.Just not with the Eskimos.

Eskimos head coach Jason Maas speaks to the media after their season ended in the Eastern Finals Sunday losing to Hamilton in Edmonton, November 18, 2019.

Ed Kaiser /  

Postmedia
Hired by then-general manager and former Eskimos teammate Ed Hervey, who now serves in the same capacity with the B.C. Lions, Maas has long been rumoured to end up being reunited there with ex-Eskimos quarterback Mike Reilly, who led the league in passing yards for three straight seasons in Maas’s offensive system.Reilly’s replacement, Trevor Harris, was following in those very footsteps this year, leading the league in passing yards with MOP-level numbers prior to suffering an arm injury that forced him to miss five games. But despite the Eskimos’ gaudy offensive yards during Maas’s tenure, they never challenged in the West Division. The closest they came to hosting a home playoff game was a third-place finish after a 12-6 record in 2017 – the year of the infamous field-goal call while trailing the rival Calgary Stampeders by seven (3+3+1?) in the last 90 seconds of the West final.They followed up by going 9-9 to miss the 2018 playoffs entirely, in a year when Edmonton hosted the Grey Cup final, before crossing over in 2019 (8-10) for the second time since Maas’s rookie season in 2016 (10-8).Heading into the 2019 season, Maas was on his last leg with the Eskimos board of directors, according to a source, and was told there would be no further outbursts on the sidelines. Or else …To Maas’s credit, he toned it down this year, but the lack of discipline that had previously been on display – players take their cues from the top, mind you – still manifested itself in the Eskimos leading the league in both penalties and penalty yards.And while flying flags weren’t the be-all, end-all, they certainly didn’t help Maas’s case when, for the second season in a row and with a new-look roster overhauled through free agency, the Eskimos suffered another all-out collapse midway through the schedule.And when the same trends continue with different players, the arrow of blame points squarely at coaching.But at this point, the Eskimos have to be asking themselves which soon-to-be free agents are going to follow their former head coach, wherever he ends up?“Yeah, free agency these days is fluid no matter what, there’s rarely a same roster from year to year,” Eskimos general manager Brock Sunderland said while addressing media Wednesday. “So there’s going to be changes regardless, and those players are going – I don’t want to speak for anyone else – but there’s fluid movement in free agency right now no matter what anyway.”Email: gmoddejonge@postmedia.comOn Twitter: @GerryModdejongeWe encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with Edmonton Sun