








        This year, Hulu's Black Friday deal offers new subscribers the Basic subscription for just $1.99 a month.
      
Alyssa Powell/Business Insider

This Black Friday and Cyber Monday, products aren't the only things you can save on. Hulu, one of the best streaming services for TV shows, movies, and live TV, is once again offering a can't-miss deal for new subscribers. Available now through December 2: New subscribers can sign up for the ad-supported Basic Hulu subscription for just $1.99 a month.That brings the total cost to a little under $24 for the entire year (a $48 savings). After the promotion ends, your subscription will cost $5.99 a month. There are a couple of restrictions:The 2019 Cyber Week deal is not as good as the 2018 deal, which gave new subscribers a yearlong subscription to the ad-supported version of Hulu for $0.99 a month, but it's still a great deal overall. Editor's note: I signed up for the 2018 deal and have since rolled over to a regular subscription. I am keeping my subscription because it's a great value. Especially around Thanksgiving I'm grateful for Hulu's library of James Bond movies.You may also want to check out the Disney Plus-Hulu-ESPN bundle, which allows you to get all three services for $12.99 a month. Read more about the bundle here. How much is Hulu? Normally, the Hulu Basic subscription (ad-supported) costs $5.99 a month, so you'll save $4 a month, or $48 in total for the year. The Premium subscription (ad-free) costs $11.99 a month and there are also options to add Live TV or other services such as HBO or the newly launched Disney Plus to your Hulu subscription. After the 12-month promotion ends, you'll pay $5.99 a month. If you qualify, you get access to all content on Hulu, which includes original programming like "The Handmaid's Tale," old and new TV favorites like "Grey's Anatomy" and "This Is Us," and movies spanning all genres. The timing of this deal is perfect — there are many entertaining Christmas movies you can start streaming immediately to get in the holiday spirit. If you're interested in streaming and entertainment promotions specifically, Amazon is offering 50% off rentals or purchases of new release movies on Prime Video, from November 29 through December 5. We're covering all the best Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals from top retailers here: Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.