
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
Cyber Monday is officially here. Though it may have felt like it had already started over the weekend with many Black Friday deals lingering and a number of early Cyber Monday deals kicking off, the online event actually started this morning. Since the early hours, the deals have been coming thick and fast meaning you don't have to look very far to find a great deal, but are you finding the best deal?Some Cyber Monday prices may beat what Black Friday had to offer, others will match it, and some of them may be a bit worse making you wish you pulled the tricker 48 hours ago. Unfortunately, time machines are not on sale this year, but we're doing our utmost to surface all of the absolutely killer deals Cyber Monday has to offer so you can still make a thrifty purchase and feel good about yourself.Buy one Galaxy S10 or Note 10 and get one free at VerizonTake a look below at this year's best deals. With over a hundred listed, you'll certainly find something that meets your needs or you forgot you were even looking for. The deals up top have been highlighted as must-haves, then down below there is a constantly updating list of the best the day has to offer. We check every deal, historic pricing and previous offers, to ensure that you're actually getting a good price rather than falling foul of overinflated MSRPs. That way you save time and money.The Google Nest Wifi router 2-pack is down to $259 on Amazon. That's $40 off the router's usual price and one of the best deals we've ever seen for Google's mesh networking system. An individual router sells for $149, so you're still saving $40 versus buying them by themselves. This is a scalable and flexible mesh networking system that can blanket your whole home in Wi-Fi, eliminating dead zones and making it simple to use. You can add more as you need them. These routers handle up to 200 connected devices.If you aren't one of the millions of people who already signed up for Disney Plus, you may actually be excited that you waited. The streaming media service has proven to be wildly popular so far, and ahead of the official launch Disney offered a few discounts, but nothing since the service actually launched. Cyber Monday changes that, and brings the first major discount (bundle pricing aside) to the service. For a limited time only, you can sign up and prepay for one year and get it for just $59.99. It's time to start binge-watching all of the new originals, classic TV series, and movies on Disney+. You could pay for the service monthly, which would cost you $84 a year, or pay $60 today to get access for a full year. The choice seems simple!Catch up with Chip & Dale, Darkwing Duck, Baloo and more classic Disney characters in this digital six-game collection for Xbox One.
It's finally time to start binge-watching all of the new originals, classic TV series, and movies on Disney+! Signing up for a one-year membership drops the monthly cost to $5.83. Meanwhile, Verizon customers can score a full year for free! Cyber Monday is the perfect time to save on the flagship phone you've been eyeing up with big-name brands dropping prices to tempt buyers before the holidays. Samsung is getting in on the fun today with a one-day sale via Amazon offering its top-end devices with some significant savings and also throwing in a pair of AKG noise-cancelling headphones for good measure. All told, you'll be saving over $500 with these deals, but they won't all stay in stock for the full day, so get in there fast. The sale features pretty much every color and capacity of Samsung's flagship devices right now and you can choose between Black or Silver AKG N700NC active noise-cancelling headphones. The sale ends today or when sold out. Uses latest technology. Has read/write speeds of 550 MB/s and 520 MB/s respectively. Has hardware-based encryption and a three-year limited warranty. Uses SATA interface for up to 6 GB/s but is backwards compatible with older versions. This kit comes with everything you need to keep an eye on your home, no matter where you are. It includes the essential SmartThings Hub, along with two Multipurpose sensors, a motion sensor and an outlet at its lowest price ever.This is an all-new low price for one of Samsung's best portable drives with around $30 off its average price. It's fast with read-write speeds of up to 540 MB/s, has AES 256-bit hardware encryption, and comes with both USB-A and USB-C cables.This is an SDXC card so you need to make sure your device can support it. The card is perfect for recording high-quality 4K video. Use it with a laptop, a Nintendo Switch, or any other device that needs a lot of storage. Has a 10 year warranty.These pair with both iOS and Android via Bluetooth. With iOS you get voice commands via Siri access. With Android you get automatic sync and Ambient Aware Mode. The buds have six hours of battery with an extra seven from the case. Just when you thought the price of Apple's 2017 MacBook Air couldn't get any lower, they only went and lowered it again! The Mid-2017 13-inch model features 8GB of RAM and a 128GB SSD. While it isn't for those seeking the latest and greatest, it is perfectly serviceable for the majority of people and one of the most affordable ways to get into the Mac ecosystem at this new low price. Today's sale makes this 13-inch MacBook Air pretty affordable. It offers 8GB of RAM, 128GB of internal storage, and more, so be sure to check one out today.Roku just announced improvements to its lineup in mid-September but its newest crop of devices haven't avoided the Cyber Monday price knife. In fact, the top-of-the-line Roku Ultra just had its price cut by 50% at Amazon. Now down to just $49, it's just a dollar more than it went last week in a pre-Black Friday sale before it promptly sold out. It's way lower than any discount before that and we likely won't see a price like this for some time after today. The Ultra is Roku's best device with the fastest processor and this is its best price ever. It has a fast channel launch, a lost remote finder, enhanced voice search, and more. It comes with JBL Premium headphones for private listening too.It's just not Cyber Monday without a great Instant Pot deal. Lucky for you it is Cyber Monday so you have a chance to outfit your kitchen with the Instant Pot Duo80 7-in-1 electric pressure cooker while it's on sale for $65. While this deal expired over the weekend, it is the same price we saw on Black Friday. The Instant Pot normally sells for around $100 and until now has never dropped this low. This price drop brings it to a new all-time low, but it will only stick around for today. This version of the Instant Pot has a large capacity, multiple cooking functions, and more. If you don't have one already, change that today!Gaming PCs are never finished. You might have built it and set up the lighting, but you know you need a new monitor or some more RGB or a new mouse. There's always room to improve. Today for Cyber Monday you can take up 20% off a selection of PC gaming gear on Amazon that covers all the above and more. All of these accessories and things are down to super low prices, some the lowest prices ever. It's not just about improving your PC, either. You can find gaming laptops on sale and some gear for improving your network so the internet is never an issue while playing. This one-day sale has a variety of different accessories, including keyboards, RAM, headsets, Wi-Fi extenders, monitor mounts, and more. Be sure to check out all the great options now. It's Cyber Monday, and that means Amazon has a new round of daily deals live right now! One of those deals applies to a pair of Ecovacs Deebot robot vacuum cleaners on sale with 50% off. Thes crazy low prices are the best we've ever seen but they expire at the end of the day or when sold out. Both options in the sale offer automated cleaning of your hardwood floors or carpets including vacuuming and mopping with app and voice control. The Ozmo 920 even maps out your home so you can pick exactly where to clean. These are best-ever prices.The Deebot is equipped with two side brushes and a main brush so it can sweep, lift, and vacuum an entire floor. Use other modes like Spot or Edge to clean specific areas. Lasts 110 minutes on one charge. Works with Alexa and Google Assistant. Control this smart robotic vacuum cleaner using an app on your phone, or even with your voice! It's compatible with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, and today's one-day deal brings it to a new low price by over $100.Moves from hard floors to carpet. You can control how it cleans and where it goes thanks to smart navigation technology. The vacuum can talk to you to let you know its progress. Control it through an app or your smart home. Lasts up to 90 minutes.We have seen lots of different deals on smart home gear over the past week or two, but nothing quite as extensive as this one-day Cyber Monday sale that's taking place at Amazon right now. Whether you are just looking to get started with building the smart home of your dreams, or you want to expand on the smartness of your existing setup, this is a deal you can't miss. Popular products from brands like Yale, Netgear, Nixplay, TP-Link, and more are on sale by up to 50% for today only. This Cyber Monday sale has just about everything you need to make your home the smartest one on the block. From ceiling fans to plugs, photo frames, and more, you won't want to miss this.Alongside its plethora of device discounts, Amazon is known for running exceptional offers on its subscription services as well. Right now, you can snag three months of Kindle Unlimited for free. That's right, it costs you nothing, zero, zilch, to gain access to millions of books, unlimited audiobooks, current magazines, and more.You don't even need a Kindle to read everything on, either. It works with your phone, PC, tablet, and more. Be sure to give it a shot today, but remember to cancel before the three months is up if you don't want to end up paying for it after. Or keep it, because it's great value at full price anyway. Amazon is letting new subscribers of Kindle Unlimited try the service out completely free for three months! You'll gain access to over 1 million titles to read whenever you want, wherever you want. You don't need a Kindle to start reading, either. There are hundreds of great deals already flowing, with potential savings in the thousands here. We are constantly updating the list below with the latest and greatest offers so be sure to check them out now.If you are just looking to see the latest deals available, we have you covered. Here are 25 new deals that will be constantly-updating throughout the day, so check back often. They say practice makes perfect, but tracking your performance with purpose is just as important. This indoor/outdoor launch monitor can capture data like carry distance, club head speed, ball speed, spin, apex height, and sync it to your phone.Keep your gear protected from power surges and failures while giving yourself enough time to save your data and shut it down in an emergency. The sale ends tonight.If you missed the Black Friday deal on this kit, now's your chance to score the next best price. It tells you more than the standard AncestryDNA kit, such as carrier status and wellness reports, how your DNA may influence health conditions, and more.It's nearly 2020 and if you're still vacuuming for yourself, you're doing it wrong. Instead, set cleaning schedules or control the Roomba 671 with just your voice. It runs up to 90 minutes, before returning to its dock automatically to recharge.Well-reviewed Anker charging accessories are on sale at Amazon today only, including must-haves like wireless chargers, Lightning cables, USB wall chargers, power strips, and much more.There is a slight shipping delay right now, but you can still lock in these cable ties for less than $3. It's a 5-count package that you can use to clean up cables on your desk, nightstand, and more.We saw some great Black Friday discounts on Sonos gear, and some of the deals are still lingering around. Right now, you can grab the second-generation Sonos One for $30 less and enjoy all the voice control abilities it has for less.If you're looking for an outdoor Bluetooth speaker that looks different but sounds great, this is the deal that you're looking for. The speaker has 6 hours of playback time per charge, a 5W speaker for great audio, and more.Each year Target offers 10% off its gift cards for one day only, and that big day is today. You can buy up to $300 in cards, which means you can essentially score $30 in free money with this deal.This one-day sale has knives, saws, soldering guns and more at steep discounts. Gerber makes some very well reviewed tools, so don't miss your chance to grab one for a sweet discount.This one-day sale saves you big on a variety of toys from popular brands. These are up to 30% off, but the discounts are only good for a very limited time. Be sure to check everything out now.Cleans mid-to-large driveways and walkways. No gas. No oil. No tune-ups. Moves up to 720 pounds per minute. Has 4-blade steel augurs that cut 18 inches wide and a 180-degree directional chute. The 23W halogen lights show your path even in dark.Know a PC junkie? Get him something for the holidays without breaking your bank. Includes popular brand names like SanDisk, Razer, and HyperX. Grab a microSD card, a streaming headset, or kitty ears if you want. All on sale.Microsoft's Wireless Mobile Mouse 4000 comes with a Nano USB receiver that lets you use it wirelessly with a myriad of computers. A single AA battery gives it enough power for more than 10 months of use!Select Cyber Monday deals are still available at Best Buy, including discounts of up to $100 off the Apple Watch Series 4. All of the options are at least $50 off currently, so you'll be saving quite a bit no matter which model you pick.
The all-new Echo Show 8 is equipped with an 8-inch HD display and Amazon Alexa's voice assistant which will let you check the latest news and weather, control your smart home, watch TV, and more. Bundling with a Dot lets you put Alexa in more rooms.This 753-piece set lets you build a portion of the Hogwarts Castle along with the brutal Whomping Willow tree featured in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, and the Weasley family's flying Ford Anglia.Amazon cooked up a stellar deal on this well-reviewed Cuisinart convection oven which features a 0.8 cubic-foot capacity that can fit a full 12-inch pizza inside and comes with a rotisserie feature for roasting chicken and more.
These smart plugs allow you to start turning electronics on and off with the free Kasa app. Set schedules, use your voice to control your home, and more.Plugging the Echo Input into speakers you already own can add Alexa voice-assistant functionality to them, allowing you to ask about the weather, stream songs from Apple Music or Spotify, listen to Audible audiobooks, and much more.Save $40 on the Lenovo Smart Clock and score three months of service to Pandora and SiriusXM for free in the process. This voice-activated device lets you use the Google Assistant to set alarms, hear the news, stream music, and more.Turn your paper airplanes into remote-controlled flying machines with this discounted conversion kit. It lets you use an app on your phone to start controlling your paper airplanes and it's easy to set up too.The TicPods Free — from the makers of the TicWatch brand of smartwatches — offer 4 hours of playback per charge, and the compact carrying case actually can provide an additional 14 hours of usage time. This is their best price to date.Hubsan's drone is equipped with a 720p HD camera so you can take pictures and videos while it's flying up in the air. It's easy enough for just about anyone to fly, too. LEGO's 418-piece Spider Crawler set lets you build Spider-Man's spider crawler vehicle featuring two stud shooters and a web shooter. You'll also receive minifigures of Spider-Man, Vulture, and Sandman.Black Friday is always a big time for discounts on Amazon's own hardware, and this is usually the time of the year we see some of the best pricing ever. Cyber Monday deals follow right behind, as well. Whether you're looking for an Echo speaker or Ring Video Doorbell, here are the best Amazon device deals to consider today. See who's at your door from anywhere with this smart doorbell. Models at Woot are available used or certified refurbished condition today, both of which have been tested to ensure they work like new and come with a 90-day or 1-year warranty.The all-new Echo Show 8 is equipped with an 8-inch HD display and Amazon Alexa's voice assistant which will let you check the latest news and weather, control your smart home, watch TV, and more. Bundling with a Dot lets you put Alexa in more rooms.You can grab two Echo Auto devices for the regular price of one with the below code. Connect to Alexa on your phone and hear her through your car's speakers. Designed to hear you over traffic, music, and the A/C.These tiny smart speakers plug right into an AC outlet in your home so you can speak with Alexa, stream music from services like Spotify, control compatible smart home devices using only your voice, and more. Use the below code to save on a 2-pack.Amazon's Echo Show 5 is the latest Echo device with a screen. Now Alexa not just tells you everything you want to know, but shows you too! You can even stream shows and movies from services like Prime Video, music from Spotify, and more.These operate on AA batteries that are designed to last for up to two years so you can install them just about anywhere. They can be used inside or outside so take your pick. All the kits are 25% off and get you an Echo Dot at no extra cost.This tiny smart speaker plugs right into an AC outlet in your home so you can speak with Alexa, stream music from services like Spotify, control compatible smart home devices using only your voice, and more.With Black Friday pricing hitting a bunch of Amazon Echo devices, you can now score the super-popular Echo Dot with an Amazon Smart Plug for just $5 extra. Use it to add voice control to a dumb appliance, set schedules, and more. This HDTV set features Amazon's Fire OS and normally sells just above $140 on average there; today's price marks a return to the lowest we've ever seen it reach. It offers a 720p resolution and gives you access to all your favorite streaming apps.Get your hands on the 2017 Kindle Oasis at its best price ever. With 8GB or 32GB capacity, you'll have room for thousands of books, magazines, and more. As well as $100 off, you also get a $5 ebook credit with your purchase. Ever wish you could watch live TV using your Fire TV Stick or Echo Show 5? With the Fire TV Recast, you can watch and record live TV on those devices or a compatible mobile device. This is a match for its Prime Day low. This Kids Edition tablet features the recently-released Fire HD 10 in a kid-proof case, a year of FreeTime Unlimited, and a 2-year replacement guarantee. As it has only been available since October, this is its first major discount.The 8-inch tablet comes housed in a case that protects it from whatever your little one throws at it. Amazon also includes a two-year no-questions-asked warranty as well as a year of FreeTime Unlimited worth $99.The Kids Edition Fire tablets come in sturdy, colorful cases with a two-year worry-free guarantee that Amazon will send you a replacement if one breaks, no matter what happens to it. This is a match for its best price ever.This slim device gives you access to a veritable trove of books. The latest Paperwhite is waterproof and has twice the storage of the previous-gen. This price matches its best ever, and the freebies sweeten the deal further.The Peephole Cam is perfect for those who can't install a traditional doorbell, say in an apartment building, but want all of the smarts of a regular Ring doorbell like HD video, 2-way talk, alerts, and more. It's never gone this low before.The Ring Video Doorbell Pro is one of the best options you can get, and the Echo Show 5 lets you view who's at your door from its 5.5-inch display. This bundle is $70 less than the doorbell itself normally sells for alone, so don't miss out.Amazon's Echo Show 5 and Ring Video Doorbell 2 bundle has again dropped to its lowest ever price. These two are perfect to purchase together as you can watch the doorbell's live feed on the Echo Show 5. The 2019 Fire HD 10 was only released last month so this is the first major sale on it. Don't miss your chance to score $50 off it in the color or capacity of your choice. Amazon's Fire HD 8 tablet is back down to its Prime Day price ahead of Black Friday. These tablets are great for watching movies, playing games, reading, and more, but the discounts are only good for a limited time.This is the lowest this tablet has gone and the last time it hit this price it was only for Amazon Prime members. Today's discount offers savings for anyone with $20 off both the 16GB and 32GB tablet in the color of your choice.This updated Dot was only released a few weeks ago but you can already make a killer saving on it. Amazon is offering a bundle with a free smart plug, or you can grab it with a smart bulb instead for just $5 more. The Deebot 601 has sensors to prevent collisions and drops, a battery life that lasts for up to 2 hours, and the ability to return to itself to its charging station. The bundle with an Echo Dot scores you almost $90 off purchasing the two separately.The M10 HD has a 10.1-inch HD display, Qualcomm Snapdragon 429 processor, 2GB RAM and 16GB storage with support for microSD cards up to 256GB. The best part is when this Android tablet is docked, it becomes a screen for Alexa to use. Very cool.Buying refurbished is always a good way to save, especially during a sale! Right now, Amazon's offering an extra $20 off the certified refurbished Fire HD 10 tablet for a full savings of $50! It comes with a full warranty and is basically like new.All Amazon Devices DealsA lot of consideration normally goes into a TV purchase, but sometimes when you see a good deal you just have to have it, right? There are tons and tons of Black Friday TV deals to be had and plenty more on Cyber Monday, but not all are equal. Unfortunately, this holiday season brings with it some unique models that aren't available at other times of the year, and some other things which make it very hard to guage just how good of a deal you are actually getting. We've been following the trends this year, and here are some great options that you should consider purchasing. This HDTV set features Amazon's Fire OS and normally sells just above $140 on average there; today's price marks a return to the lowest we've ever seen it reach. It offers a 720p resolution and gives you access to all your favorite streaming apps.One of the better mid-range TVs. The 600 nits of brightness work great with Dolby Vision HDR support. The 90 local dimming zones provide stunning depth. Works with Apple AirPlay and HomeKit. Control it with Siri, Alexa, or Google Assistant.The Amazon Prime Rewards Visa Card and Prime Store Card have no annual fees and offer 5% cashback on all your orders on Amazon. Today, cardholders can even score up to 20% back on select Samsung and Sony smart TVs, sporting gear, and more. Thanks to Dell's Semi-Annual Sale, Sony's 2019 55-inch 4K Smart TV is now more than $200 off its original price. It's compatible with Google Home and Amazon Alexa for voice control, even allowing you to control compatible smart home devices. This gorgeous 4K UHD HDR smart TV features LG'S ThinQ Ai tech and is compatible with Google Home and Amazon Alexa. Soundbars and 4K UHD Smart TVs from retailers like Samsung, LG, and TCL, including some QLED and OLED models, are now on sale at Amazon for Labor Day while supplies last. Hisense's H8F series features Android TV with built-in Google Assistant so you can stream shows and movies from Netflix, Hulu, and even Disney+ when it releases in a few months, without needing another device plugged in. Factory reconditioned and refurbished smart TVs are now on sale at Woot with prices starting as low as $139.99. You'll score a warranty with today's purchase too, most of which last for 90 days. 
Amazing brightness for the HDR support, great local dimming, and a smart platform for all your streaming apps. These VIZIO smart TVs can access all your favorite streaming channels thanks to their built-in Google Chromecast. They even offer Apple HomeKit support, voice control functionality, and more. This smart TV can access services like Netflix, Hulu, and Prime Video without needing a separate device plugged in! Thanks to Dell's Black Friday in July sale, you can find a better deal on VIZIO's 50-inch 4K UHD HDR Smart TV there than anywhere else. This well-reviewed 43-inch 4K UHD LED TV just returned to one of the best prices it's ever reached. This smart TV features all the functionality of a Roku Streaming Stick built in, so you can stream services like Netflix, access the internet, and watch YouTube by connecting it with your home's Wi-Fi network. This stunning 60-inch television features built-in Chromecast with the ability to access Netflix, Hulu, and tons of other essential CordCutter apps.This 4K Ultra HD HDR smart TV features built-in 10W speakers, Wi-Fi, and a pretty nice price.It's not only $100 lower than the competition is priced at, but it also comes with a $300 gift card.Three generations are on sale today. Pick the one fits your budget. The price may not have dropped directly, but the gift card makes up for that here. The discount may not be huge, but you'll find lots of things to spend the $300 gift card on. Upgrading to a new phone does not have to break the bank. If you want to avoid going through your carrier for a new phone, here are some great options that are rather heavily discounted going into Black Friday and Cyber Monday. iPhone 6s has a 12MP rear camera and 5MP front-facing camera, 3D Touch display tech, and Apple's A9 processor. It also supports Apple's latest iOS 13 software. It's a great pick for a first phone and this deal saves you $100 off its regular cost.The Sony Xperia 10 is a well-rounded mid-range phone and it's 50% off right now. It offers a 6-inch display with a 21:9 aspect ratio, two rear cameras, and expandable storage. It's unlocked to work on all major U.S. carriers, which is a huge perk.Sprint has a major deal going on the Samsung Galaxy S10+ right now. Choose an 18-month Flex Lease to score one for just $15 per month. That saves you nearly $27 every month off its usual price! Get your hands on the LG G8 ThinQ smartphone at Sprint for just $10 monthly when you sign up for an 18-month Flex lease and add a line to your plan or make an eligible upgrade. That saves you $25 each month!Not looking to shell out $800+ for the latest Google Pixel 4? Sprint's offering the Google Pixel 3 for as low as $10 monthly when you start an 18-month lease and add a line of service or an eligible upgrade. That's 50% off its usual monthly cost. With a massive 4000mAh battery, 8GB RAM, and 256GB storage, this is one powerful device that makes its mark with features like a gorgeous display, three rear cameras, and an amazing pop-up selfie camera.Verizon is offering a free Samsung Galaxy S10e to those who buy another at full price while adding a new line on any Unlimited plan. Those switching from another carrier will even score a $200 prepaid Mastercard when porting-in their number.Mint Mobile is offering up to 40% off its service plans for three months when you join now! You can score any data plan for only $15 monthly for three months, though you'll need to pay the full three-month cost in advance. This unlocked 32GB smartphone is the perfect budget option for those looking to get a bit more out of their device, thanks to its 5000mAh battery that can keep it powered for up to 60 hours at a time.Enter the coupon code to drop the price by 50% today. This shock-absorbing TPU case protects your phone without adding bulk. The case is crystal clear as well, letting your iPhone 11 Pro Max show its true colors. Get a Pixel 4 64GB phone and get a second one for $0 a month after a promo credit. Upgrade to the Pixel 4 XL and you can get a second Pixel 4 XL free as well. Requires an 18-month lease with Sprint.Not willing to spend $800 on one of Google's recently announced Pixel 4 smartphones? This Amazon deal saving you over 40% off the Google Pixel 3's regular price is one of the next best options! You'll get $800 for the second phone as promo credits spread out over the course of 24 months, basically making the Pixel 4 64GB free. Your first phone can be the Pixel 4 or 4XL as long as the second phone is equal or lesser value. The phone was only just announced, but you can already get a great deal on it. The deal applies to the Pixel 4 or larger Pixel 4 XL in any color or capacity. And, since you'll be shopping at Amazon again, the gift card is basically free money.Make sure your new iPhone 11 is protected with this clear shock-absorbing case by ESR which features raised edges, scratch-resistance, and a flexible TPU frame. This phone is set to be released at the end of October, and this is the best deal we've shared for it yet. You'll be saving $50, and B&H throws in a 3-month prepaid Mint Mobile service plan with your purchase too. Every smartphone should have a screen protector on it, but especially those that are as delicate and expensive as the latest iPhone models. This pack of tempered glass screen protectors is a perfect fit for the iPhone 11 Pro, iPhone XS, and iPhone X.Compatible with all major U.S. carriers. It includes a 6.1-inch OLED full vision display, 6GB RAM, and 128GB internal memory. It also has a 12MP and 16MP dual rear camera setup with Google Lens, and an IP68 rating for dust and water resistance.This deal comes through Sprint and requires signing up on a new line of service with the 18-month Flex Lease. You'll get a $17 credit every month, bringing the cost of the phone down. Can also stack with other deals like "Lease One, Get One."Score a free LG G8 ThinQ at Verizon when you purchase another at regular cost and add a new line to your plan. Or, you could snag LG's V50 ThinQ device at $840 off. The discount will be applied to your bill over 24 months. It doesn't matter which gaming platform you prefer, or who you are buying something for, just know that you shouldn't pay full price during Black Friday and Cyber Monday. There are so many deals out there for all the key platforms, including the All-Digital Xbox One S, PlayStation 4 pro, and even on Nintendo's newest Switch hardware. Give in to the nostalgia! These countertop and mini arcade machines feature authentic controls, built-in screens and speakers, along with some of your favorite games of all time. Prices are cut by up to 50%.The G602's 11 programmable buttons are rated for up to 20 million clicks and it uses Delta Zero sensor technology for up to 2,500 dpi. The mouse can last for 250 hours on one pair of batteries. It's never gone lower.The Rival 310 features a custom TrueMove 3 12,000 CPI, 350 IPS optical esports sensor with 1-to-1 tracking. It's ergonomically-designed for comfort and performance and it features RGB illumination allowing you to choose from over 16 million colors.The Nintendo Switch controllers go on sale so rarely, but today's discount matches their Prime Day record-low. There are a few different colors to choose from, but you want to grab a set before they sell out. If you've got a Switch Lite, you need a way to protect it when you take it on the go like this hard shell case with internal storage for cartridges and accessories. Prime members can use the on-page coupon and the below code to save on it.Becoming a PlayStation Plus member is one of the smartest things you can do as a PlayStation gamer, and there's no better time to start a subscription than right now with today's sale on a one-year membership via Amazon.This wired gaming headset is compatible with so many game consoles and other devices, from the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One to PS4, PC, mobile devices, and more. Halo Warfleet is the official guide to spacecraft in the Halo universe, featuring ten intricately detailed full-color cross-sections of the franchise's most renowned ships. At $19, it is 32% off its retail price and around $3 off its average price.This new service from Microsoft includes Xbox Game Pass, Game Pass for PC, and Xbox Live Gold so you can play online. Buy the 3-month digital code and you'll be sent 3 extra months for free.Quit relying on your Nintendo Switch's built-in kickstand. The Playstand was built to properly hold your console and even adjusts for a few different viewing angles. It's risen a bit in price since our original post, but it's still worth the cost!This is an incredible price and a great pickup if you don't have Civ VI in your game library yet. You'll get every expansion and piece of DLC, plus the base game. The code is redeemable via Steam. Though manufacturer refurbished, this console works perfectly and includes a full one-year warranty. You'll also get a $25 eBay coupon that works almost like cash and expires on November 4th. Score a factory refurbished Nintendo 2DS XL console at $50 off the cost of a brand new model, and you'll also receive an eBay bonus coupon that can be used to save $25 on a future purchase through November 4. The console is backed by a full warranty.This deal comes within a dollar of the best we've seen for this product. The stand allows you to play your console in tabletop mode while charging. The viewing angle can be adjusted as well. Reviews are positive. Outside of special days like Black Friday, $35 is the best price you can hope to find for a DualShock 4 controller. Now's a great time to buy if you're in the market for an extra. Shipping is free and stock is limited. Playing Super Smash Bros. Ultimate with a Joy-Con just isn't the same. This classic GameCube-style wired Nintendo Switch controller features the buttons and layout you may be most familiar with. Today's price is a match of the best we've seen. Lego Worlds is a galaxy of places made entirely from Lego bricks. You can create anything you'd like brick by brick, or use the game's landscaping tools to build mountains, islands and more, and today's price is the lowest it's ever reached!Now's your chance to save $10 on Super Smash Bros. Ultimate at Amazon while supplies last. It very rarely drops in price, so you want to snag a saving now while you can. Add it to your cart to see the deal price.Come over to the Plus side! You can score a one-year membership to PlayStation Plus for just over $3 monthly with this sale offered via eBay.This 10000mAh power bank attaches to the back of your Switch but stays out of the way during gameplay. It has an integrated USB-C cable and also has a USB-A output for juicing up your other tech. Enter the below code to score its best price yet. Having smart home gadgets doesn't mean you're lazy, does it? There are so many different smart home accessories on the market these days that odds are you want to try a bunch of them. One problem with this technology now is that a lot of it is very expensive still, and the cheaper options just don't work as well. Use these Cyber Monday discounts to score the better options for less! See who's at your door from anywhere with this smart doorbell. Models at Woot are available used or certified refurbished condition today, both of which have been tested to ensure they work like new and come with a 90-day or 1-year warranty.It's nearly 2020 and if you're still vacuuming for yourself, you're doing it wrong. Instead, set cleaning schedules or control the Roomba 671 with just your voice. It runs up to 90 minutes, before returning to its dock automatically to recharge.This kit comes with everything you need to keep an eye on your home, no matter where you are. It includes the essential SmartThings Hub, along with two Multipurpose sensors, a motion sensor and an outlet at its lowest price ever.The all-new Echo Show 8 is equipped with an 8-inch HD display and Amazon Alexa's voice assistant which will let you check the latest news and weather, control your smart home, watch TV, and more. Bundling with a Dot lets you put Alexa in more rooms.Nexx's controller connects to your Wi-Fi and works through the Nexx Home app or via voice commands to Alexa or Google Assistant. You can also open the door for guests while you're away and get notifications when you forget to close it.Shark's robo vacs do the cleaning for you and have sensors to help navigate around your home and avoid obstacles. They even recharge and clean themselves and have remote or app control. Shipping is free.Appliances you already own can be controlled with your phone with help from these mini smart plugs. Adding to your cart via this link scores you 1 for $7.79 or 4 for under $5 apiece.These tiny smart speakers plug right into an AC outlet in your home so you can speak with Alexa, stream music from services like Spotify, control compatible smart home devices using only your voice, and more. Use the below code to save on a 2-pack.Wyze indoor cameras record video in 1080p HD and feature night vision, 2-way audio, Alexa support, and more. What's even better is that these cameras don't require a monthly subscription in order to get the most out of them. The charging station doubles as a dirt bin, and the i7+ drops off its own dirt. Your Roomba does all the work and texts you when the bag is full. It can learn multiple floor plans, and it can connect to your smart home.Control this smart robotic vacuum cleaner using an app on your phone, or even with your voice! It's compatible with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, and today's one-day deal brings it to a new low price by over $100.These operate on AA batteries that are designed to last for up to two years so you can install them just about anywhere. They can be used inside or outside so take your pick. All the kits are 25% off and get you an Echo Dot at no extra cost.This Alexa-compatible vac uses a dual-gyro system and motion tracking sensors to clean your floors in the most efficient way possible. It won't fall down stairs or get stuck on obstacles and the battery gives it 2.5 hours of cleaning.The S5 uses smart navigation to map your house and plan its own routes to clean, though you can also control it with an app on your phone or with your voice. Clipping the coupon on its product page saves you $140 off its usual price at Amazon!With Black Friday pricing hitting a bunch of Amazon Echo devices, you can now score the super-popular Echo Dot with an Amazon Smart Plug for just $5 extra. Use it to add voice control to a dumb appliance, set schedules, and more. Control your garage door from anywhere in the world using an app on your phone. This device even closes the door automatically when you leave and is compatible with most garage door openers along with Google Assistant, Amazon Alexa, Siri, and IFTTT.This Eero kit replaces your traditional Wi-Fi system, providing 4,500 square feet of coverage via its three routers. It's super easy to set up, reliable once running, and you can add more Eero products later to expand your range if you need to.This 1080p wireless security camera system lets you view its live stream using an app on your phone or tablet. Weatherproofing means it is suitable for use indoors or out and its battery lasts 365-days per charge. Clip the on-page coupon to save.Robotic cleaners are a great way to keep your house free from dust and dirt with minimal effort. This model has laser navigation and A.I. Mapping for an efficient clean, 2200Pa suction, Alexa support, a 2.5-hour run time, and a new record low price.The system's installation is very simple with no special tools required. Once it's in, the Rachio can monitor and manage how you use your water, set schedules, make automatic adjustments for the weather, integrate with Alexa, and more.Whether you need to do some repairs around the house or you just want to buy some things that you may never use, here's the list for you! From tools and repair kits to some smart home gear that could improve your quality of life at home, these are the deals you can't miss out on. Amazon renewed these Dyson V6 Motorhead Cord-Free Vacuums on sale today to ensure they're in Like-New condition. Keep this vacuum docked and it's always charged and ready to go.
Control your garage door from anywhere in the world using an app on your phone. This device even closes the door automatically when you leave and is compatible with most garage door openers along with Google Assistant, Amazon Alexa, Siri, and IFTTT.This 1080p wireless security camera system lets you view its live stream using an app on your phone or tablet. Plus, the weather-proof camera is suitable for use both indoors and outside and comes with mounting hardware.Let this robotic vacuum take care of cleaning up for a change! It can run for up to 100 minutes at a time and then heads back to its charging station automatically so you never come home to find it dead in the middle of a dirty floor. Make your garage door smarter and start controlling it with an app on your phone using this discounted smart garage door controller. It even allows for voice control with Alexa or Google Assistant. Clip its on-page coupon at Amazon to save $10 today.This Black+Decker tool set is filled with essentials every home should have on hand, from an 8V MAX cordless lithium drill to a claw hammer, an adjustable wrench, a ratcheting screwdriver, various screwdriver bits, and more. Clip the on-page coupon and then enter the promo code to get your discount. These newly-released bulbs can shine white light or you can use the included remote to choose from 15 vibrant colors. There are four lighting modes as well.Opodee's smart robotic vacuum lasts for up to 100 minutes on a single charge and returns to its charging station automatically. By clipping the coupon on its page and entering the following code at checkout, you'll snag one of its best prices ever.There's a slight shipping delay, but this deal gets you $10 off and it's the best price we've seen for the product. Reviews are great too. This two-drawer case features removable dividers and heavy-duty latches.Whether you're sprucing up your desk or your entertainment center, this LED light strip is a great pick with the ability to turn multiple colors at once and be controlled with your phone. Clip its on-page coupon and use the promo code at checkout.Save over 20% on these well-rated outdoor smart plugs. They're waterproof, compatible with various voice assistants, and controllable via your smartphone no matter where you're at in the world. Opodee's smart robotic vacuum lasts for up to 100 minutes on a single charge and returns to its charging station automatically. By clipping the coupon on its page and then entering the code below, you'll snag one of its best prices yet.
These reusable zip ties are perfect for keeping all the wires and cables for your electronics from causing a jumbled mess around your home. The slotted head even allows you to hang these ties from a hook, and you can cut them to size too. Whether you want to replace a hard drive or try to replace your smartphone display, this 27-piece kit can help you get started. Its price has never dropped this low before.Sugru is awesome. It's moldable glue that can be used for tons of different projects, and this discounted kit includes packets of Sugru and a book filled with 18 ideas to get you started. Reviews are great too. Sold new for $500, here's your chance to snag arguably the best version of Ring's Video Doorbell at 50% off its usual cost! These Elite models come with a 1-year warranty and require hardwiring via Ethernet for power and connectivity.This limited-time offer comes within a dollar of the best we've ever shared. The smart thermostat works with your favorite smart home voice assistants as well as most heating and cooling systems.The T5+ is easy to install and can be controlled using an app on your phone. This 27-piece toolset includes carefully selected bits that can be used to repair devices like mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and even wristwatches and glasses. Today's sale brings its price lower than it's been in nearly four years.Bring your home improvement plans to fruition with this Pocket Driver kit that features two speeds and a compact design to help you finish the job nearly anywhere. Today's discount brings the kit back to the best price we've ever seen it reach. See who's at your door from anywhere with this smart doorbell. Models at Woot are available used or certified refurbished condition today, both of which have been tested to ensure they work like new and come with a 90-day or 1-year warranty.This is a high-performance mouse with a 16,000 DPI sensor you can adjust on the fly. It also has 11 customizable buttons with onboard memory so you can switch between gaming profiles. Use LightSync to sync the lighting with other Logitech gear. The T5 features quick read and write speeds of up to 540 Mbps along with AES 256-bit hardware encryption. It's so tiny it can fit in the palm of your hand too. It comes with a USB-C and USB-A cable in the box and a 3-year warranty.Today's Amazon Gold Box features a variety of Hot Wheels toys on sale with prices around $4. The sale feature vehicles from the Speed Demons, Factory Fresh, and Street Beasts collections among others. There are even a couple of Batmobiles on sale.They say practice makes perfect, but tracking your performance with purpose is just as important. This indoor/outdoor launch monitor can capture data like carry distance, club head speed, ball speed, spin, apex height, and sync it to your phone.Keep your gear protected from power surges and failures while giving yourself enough time to save your data and shut it down in an emergency. The sale ends tonight.If you missed the Black Friday deal on this kit, now's your chance to score the next best price. It tells you more than the standard AncestryDNA kit, such as carrier status and wellness reports, how your DNA may influence health conditions, and more.It's nearly 2020 and if you're still vacuuming for yourself, you're doing it wrong. Instead, set cleaning schedules or control the Roomba 671 with just your voice. It runs up to 90 minutes, before returning to its dock automatically to recharge.Well-reviewed Anker charging accessories are on sale at Amazon today only, including must-haves like wireless chargers, Lightning cables, USB wall chargers, power strips, and much more.There is a slight shipping delay right now, but you can still lock in these cable ties for less than $3. It's a 5-count package that you can use to clean up cables on your desk, nightstand, and more.We saw some great Black Friday discounts on Sonos gear, and some of the deals are still lingering around. Right now, you can grab the second-generation Sonos One for $30 less and enjoy all the voice control abilities it has for less.If you're looking for an outdoor Bluetooth speaker that looks different but sounds great, this is the deal that you're looking for. The speaker has 6 hours of playback time per charge, a 5W speaker for great audio, and more.Each year Target offers 10% off its gift cards for one day only, and that big day is today. You can buy up to $300 in cards, which means you can essentially score $30 in free money with this deal.This one-day sale has knives, saws, soldering guns and more at steep discounts. Gerber makes some very well reviewed tools, so don't miss your chance to grab one for a sweet discount.This one-day sale saves you big on a variety of toys from popular brands. These are up to 30% off, but the discounts are only good for a very limited time. Be sure to check everything out now.Cleans mid-to-large driveways and walkways. No gas. No oil. No tune-ups. Moves up to 720 pounds per minute. Has 4-blade steel augurs that cut 18 inches wide and a 180-degree directional chute. The 23W halogen lights show your path even in dark.Know a PC junkie? Get him something for the holidays without breaking your bank. Includes popular brand names like SanDisk, Razer, and HyperX. Grab a microSD card, a streaming headset, or kitty ears if you want. All on sale.Microsoft's Wireless Mobile Mouse 4000 comes with a Nano USB receiver that lets you use it wirelessly with a myriad of computers. A single AA battery gives it enough power for more than 10 months of use!Select Cyber Monday deals are still available at Best Buy, including discounts of up to $100 off the Apple Watch Series 4. All of the options are at least $50 off currently, so you'll be saving quite a bit no matter which model you pick.
The all-new Echo Show 8 is equipped with an 8-inch HD display and Amazon Alexa's voice assistant which will let you check the latest news and weather, control your smart home, watch TV, and more. Bundling with a Dot lets you put Alexa in more rooms.This 753-piece set lets you build a portion of the Hogwarts Castle along with the brutal Whomping Willow tree featured in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, and the Weasley family's flying Ford Anglia.Amazon cooked up a stellar deal on this well-reviewed Cuisinart convection oven which features a 0.8 cubic-foot capacity that can fit a full 12-inch pizza inside and comes with a rotisserie feature for roasting chicken and more.
These smart plugs allow you to start turning electronics on and off with the free Kasa app. Set schedules, use your voice to control your home, and more.Plugging the Echo Input into speakers you already own can add Alexa voice-assistant functionality to them, allowing you to ask about the weather, stream songs from Apple Music or Spotify, listen to Audible audiobooks, and much more.Save $40 on the Lenovo Smart Clock and score three months of service to Pandora and SiriusXM for free in the process. This voice-activated device lets you use the Google Assistant to set alarms, hear the news, stream music, and more.Turn your paper airplanes into remote-controlled flying machines with this discounted conversion kit. It lets you use an app on your phone to start controlling your paper airplanes and it's easy to set up too.The TicPods Free — from the makers of the TicWatch brand of smartwatches — offer 4 hours of playback per charge, and the compact carrying case actually can provide an additional 14 hours of usage time. This is their best price to date.Hubsan's drone is equipped with a 720p HD camera so you can take pictures and videos while it's flying up in the air. It's easy enough for just about anyone to fly, too. LEGO's 418-piece Spider Crawler set lets you build Spider-Man's spider crawler vehicle featuring two stud shooters and a web shooter. You'll also receive minifigures of Spider-Man, Vulture, and Sandman.JBL's lightweight T450BT Bluetooth headphones feature an 11-hour battery life, a flat-folded design, and JBL's Pure Bass sound. Choose between black, blue, and white while supplies last at JBL's official eBay store. Free shipping is included.Kano's Coding Kits make learning the basics of coding fun for children starting at ages six and up! You can save on select kits for fans of Frozen, Star Wars, and Harry Potter for a limited time. There are still a few days left to save with HP's Cyber Week sale on desktops, laptops, and more. Use code HOLIDAYPC to save 5% extra on PCs over $999 and code HOLIDAYPC10 to save 10% on over $1399.
That's 40 hours with Bluetooth and active noise-cancelling on. Get up to 60 hours when those are off. Uses 40mm drivers for Hi-Res Audio and BassUp tech for a strong boost to the low frequencies. Memory foam ear cups for comfort. Has a 3.5-inch blade made with sandwich steel that has high corrosion resistance and edge retention. The handle is also extra strong and hard. Frame lock holds blade open during use, and tip lock keeps it closed otherwise. Also has lifetime warranty.This Philips Hue Play kit comes with two light bars that can be laid down or stood up to add a unique ambiance to any room. Using an app, you can choose from over 16 million colors to change up your room in an instant.Best Buy is taking 25% off the Apple App Store & iTunes Gift Card of your choice when you buy another at full price. You can choose either physical or digital gift cards valued from $15 to $100.This Bluetooth smart scale lets you use an app to keep track of your health stats from weight to body fat, muscle mass, BMI, and more. Use the following code during checkout at Amazon to save 65%.Uses cooling gel and memory foam for a far more comfortable experience than normal wrist rests. Has a stable, anti-slip grip so it won't go sliding around on your desktop. Uses anti-fray stitching and an ergonomic design. Uses latest technology. Has read/write speeds of 550 MB/s and 520 MB/s respectively. Has hardware-based encryption and a three-year limited warranty. Uses SATA interface for up to 6 GB/s but is backwards compatible with older versions. The keyboard includes Cherry MX Speed switches, some of the lightest and fastest mechanical switches around. Also has multi-color RGB backlighting you can program, 100% anti-ghosting with N-key rollover, dedicated media controls, and a USB port.This kit comes with everything you need to keep an eye on your home, no matter where you are. It includes the essential SmartThings Hub, along with two Multipurpose sensors, a motion sensor and an outlet at its lowest price ever.You can also buy the individual pieces discounted if you just need, say, a ring light or a microphone, instead of the whole thing. Groupon sales only last for a limited time and tend to sell out. Everything has a one-year warranty.Give in to the nostalgia! These countertop and mini arcade machines feature authentic controls, built-in screens and speakers, along with some of your favorite games of all time. Prices are cut by up to 50%.The all-new Echo Show 8 is equipped with an 8-inch HD display and Amazon Alexa's voice assistant which will let you check the latest news and weather, control your smart home, watch TV, and more. Bundling with a Dot lets you put Alexa in more rooms.This is a great starter LEGO set for the child who just wants to build. It's one of the more affordable ways to buy LEGO bricks with over 900 pieces included and no instructions to worry about following. This Easy-Bake Ultimate Oven for kids comes with a baking pan and three mixes to make chocolate brownies, vanilla frosting, and rainbow sugar crystals! You can start listening to your music wirelessly and taking calls hands-free with these discounted Bluetooth 5.0 headphones. Clip the coupon on their product page and then enter the code below to save over 50% off their current price.This pocket-sized portable power bank is equipped with two USB ports and a 16750mAh battery capacity that can recharge your phone a few times before running out of juice. Clip the on-page coupon and use the following code to save at checkout.Nexx's controller connects to your Wi-Fi and works through the Nexx Home app or via voice commands to Alexa or Google Assistant. You can also open the door for guests while you're away and get notifications when you forget to close it.Pre-order these Funko Pop! figures based on The Child from the Star Wars show: The Mandalorian at Amazon to score up to 25% off. If the price drops any lower before its release, you'll automatically receive the lowest price it reaches! This extremely popular mouse has a highly precise 16,000 DPI optical sensor you can adjust on the fly with a dedicated button. It has customizable RGB colors, durable mechanical switches, and a 2-year warranty. There are 7 programmable buttons.Score three months of access to Kindle's digital eBook library for only $1 with this exclusive deal at Amazon. You'll be able to read the eBooks using the free Kindle app on a myriad of devices; no e-reader required. Charge more devices with this 10-port USB Charging Station which comes with 11 detachable dividers so you can adjust the spacing for whatever you're planning on charging. It powers devices at an optimized charge based on what's plugged in.Actually won a design award in Europe. Works great for coffee, tea, espresso, and more. Made of mouth-blown heat-resistant and durable glass. Two layer design prevents condensation. Dishwasher and microwave safe.The $200 discount matches what we've seen since Black Friday, but the accessories bundle is new. It includes 3 edge-sweeping brushes, 3 high-efficiency filters, dual multi-surface rubber brushes, and extends the warranty up to 2 years.A very minimal keyboard for mechanical gamers who don't need a numpad. Uses Cherry MX Red switches for durability and clickiness. Portable design includes detachable cable. Has anti-ghosting and N Key rollover. Red dynamic lighting effects.You don't have to break the bank to unlock the fast charging capability in your iPhone or iPad. Just snag this extra-long Anker USB-C to Lightning cable with the below code and get its best price to date. It works on both the black and white models.Die Hard is officially the best Christmas film and you can snag the special 30th Anniversary Edition Blu-ray + Digital version for just $6. It even comes in a fun Christmas sweater-style sleeve. Shark's robo vacs do the cleaning for you and have sensors to help navigate around your home and avoid obstacles. They even recharge and clean themselves and have remote or app control. Shipping is free.Appliances you already own can be controlled with your phone with help from these mini smart plugs. Adding to your cart via this link scores you 1 for $7.79 or 4 for under $5 apiece.These in-ear headphones come in a variety of colors and feature an in-line microphone and remote so you can easily take calls and control playback without your phone in your hand. Buying a 2-pack saves you a little more.The lights will only turn on when the ambient lighting is insufficient. Require less than 30 cents a year to operate, so they won't run up your energy bill. They are compact in size and come with an 18-month warranty. Can jump start your car up to 20 times on a single charge. It's compatible with gas engines up to 6L. The 12800mAh battery can charge your phone in an emergency, too. Use the S.O.S. light or use it to illuminate your car at night. This well-reviewed vinyl record player is now at a new low price via Amazon. It's capable of playing both 33 1/3 and 45 RPM records and comes with an Audio Technica AT91 Stylus for richer sound.Has a total output of 29W with two ports that can simultaneously charge. Can fully charge an iPhone 11 or Galaxy S10 twice before needing to recharge, which it does in less than 3 hours. Clip the on-page coupon and use the following code to save.Black Friday and Cyber Monday were huge this year with discounts across all of the big-name brands you can think of, but retailers aren't stopping there. Walmart has extended its sales event, turning Cyber Monday into Cyber Week.The mouse has a 16,000 DPI sensor for speed, accuracy, and responsiveness. Has 11 customizable buttons, onboard memory for profile storage, an adjustable weight system, and programmable RGB lighting. These well-reviewed true wireless earbuds are built for studio performance, but they're fantastic for casual listening too. They last for up to eight hours on a single charge and come with a charging case that can recharge them twice while traveling.Whether you didn't get to shop during Cyber Monday and Black Friday or you've decided you do want to buy a new computer or TV this week, Best Buy's Cyber Week sale can help you score a fantastic weekReach your destination quicker with the Lobo eFold Road. It can reach up to 20mph and travels up to 20 miles on a full charge. With this exclusive promo code, you'll save an extra $300 on today's purchase and score one of its best deals yet.This 5.1-channel speaker system just reached its best price in history. It's a six-piece set including multiple satellite speakers and a powered subwoofer.These in-ear headphones come in a variety of colors and feature an in-line microphone and remote so you can easily take calls without your phone in your hand. Shipping is free too.This well-reviewed Bluetooth speaker lets you stream music from your phone while lighting up the area around you so you can keep listening even when night falls. It can last for up to 22 hours on a single charge, too. Use the following coupon at checkout to save over $15 on this USB-C hub featuring several USB 3.0 ports, an HDMI port, a slot for SD cards, and a USB-C PD port so you can keep your computer powered up while it's plugged in.Clip the on-page coupon and then enter the following promo code during checkout to get in on this deal. This power bank has great reviews, a huge capacity, and three charging modes to top off your devices quickly and safely.
It's about time your car had a dash cam. Luckily, you can save nearly 40% on this 1080p HD version from Vava when you clip the coupon on its product page at Amazon and use the following code at checkout.
Clip the on-page coupon and use the following code at checkout to score this deal. The adapter includes 100W Power Delivery USB-C pass-through, a 4K HDMI port, three USB-A ports, and an SD card reader.Now's your chance to make sure you have everything you need for devices like your phone or tablet without paying a ton of money to procure them. Zagg is taking 40% off items sitewide; you'll see the discount added automatically during checkout.Dell's Cyber Monday sale is still going strong with deals and doorbusters like the Dell XPS 13 laptop at one of its best prices ever. At $400 off, you'll need a Christmas miracle to find a better deal on this machine before the holidays arrive.HP's Cyber Week is live with deals on desktops, laptops, and more, like this HP Spectre x360 laptop which is now $400 off its regular price. Use code HOLIDAYPC to save on PCs over $999 and code HOLIDAYPC10 to save on over $1399.PDP's officially licensed Mario Remix Starter Kit for the Nintendo Switch comes with a red carrying case to protect your console, six games, and some smaller accessories, as well as Mario-themed Joy-Con grips and a USB-C cable.Snag this limited-edition look for the Nintendo Switch at Walmart. You'll receive Mario Red Joy-Con controllers, a Mario & Bowser carrying case to match, and a $20 credit for digital games on the Nintendo eShop all for the console's regular price.Did you get some new hardware yesterday? Maybe a game or two on Black Friday? The Xbox controller has Bluetooth so it can connect easily to Windows 10 PCs and tablets. Keep a spare around if you already have one. These Bluetooth earbuds feature 6mm drivers, a built-in microphone, and the ability to last for up to seven hours on a single charge. They're water-resistant too, and they've only ever been priced $1 lower than this in the past.
Comes with a Clean & Charge station and a carrying case. Has four synchronized shaving elements and can shave in one stroke even on a 3-day beard. Sonic tech helps get those hard to reach hairs. Adjust the shaver for sensitivity with a button push.This little dinosaur has over 35 sound-and-motion combinations, which come out when kids wave at him or feed him treats. You'll get a few accessories, too, including a bottle, broccoli, and a caveman cookie.
Control the plugs from anywhere using the free app or your smart home. Works with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple HomeKit. You can set schedules so your coffee maker wakes up when you do or randomize them with "Away Mode."This deal is just about as good as anything we saw over Black Friday weekend. Plays any Switch game that has a handheld mode. Optimized for handheld play so it comes with you everywhere and has plenty of connectivity options.We all have a bunch of devices to power up and most of our phones are Qi-enabled these days, so it makes total sense to have a wireless charger anywhere you might set your phone down. Using the below code, you can grab this one for only $7. Seriously, the monitor was $1,500 at the beginning of November. Crazy drop in price. Specs include a 3440 x 1440 resolution, 120Hz refresh rate, and 2ms response time. Has a USB hub. The IPS panel uses Nano Color tech for amazing color accuracy.This 3D printer supports layer resolutions as fine as 20 microns. It has an all-metal extruder and heated print bed for any filament type including ABS and PLA. Also designed to not jam and has optimized airflow. This is some straight-on STEM learning. Not only does your kid put together a little PC, but he or she will also progress through a series of challenges and stories about electronics and wires. Even learn the basics of coding. The Sonos One SL speakers are down to $129 apiece today. If you buy two using this bundle, Amazon will give you a $10 gift card on top of that. That's $110 in savings for brand new speakers that have never been on sale before.If you have two computer monitors with either 100 x 100 or 75 x 75 VESA mounting on the back, use this arm to suspend them above your desktop. It extends and retracts and can rotate, too. This dash cam includes video recording in front of the car and inside it. It has a 310-degree angle. There's infrared night vision, 24-hour parking mode, motion sensors, and support for microSD cards up to 256GB.This 50th Anniversary edition of The Lord of the Rings includes volumes The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King all in one massive (digital) collection. Pick from four different colors at this price. These headphones have a 36-hour battery life with active noise-cancelling on and fast charge. SmartSound responds to the environment and switches on automatically if it detects distracting noises.Package includes the sparking water maker, two 60L CO2 cylinders, three 1L reusable carbonating bottles, and two 40mL zero-calorie fruit drops (lime and raspberry). Makes flavored sparkling water with the push of a button. Find your own flavors.This Bluetooth Yamaha sound bar is now down to its lowest price ever. It's packed with dual subwoofers, DTS Virtual:X for virtual 3D surround sound, Bluetooth connectivity, along with 4K pass-through, HDMI, Optical, and AUX ports.Buy the iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max, or iPhone XR at Visible this Cyber Monday and you'll score a $200 prepaid Mastercard with the purchase, along with a pair of wireless Bose Soundsport Free Earbuds.These 1080p security cameras can be live streamed from your phone and record footage. They last for up to one year on a single charge, have night vision and motion detection. Weather resistant so they can go outside, too. Amazon Prime members can save up to 50% off select movie rentals in digital HD for Cyber Monday, including recent films like John Wick 3: Parabellum, X-Men: Dark Phoenix, and Booksmart.You'll have to commit to Sprint's Flex Lease on a new line of service and trade in your old phone, but after that you'll get a $29.17 credit applied to your monthly bill, making the iPhone 11 free.This is an all-new low price for one of Samsung's best portable drives with around $30 off its average price. It's fast with read-write speeds of up to 540 MB/s, has AES 256-bit hardware encryption, and comes with both USB-A and USB-C cables.You can grab two Echo Auto devices for the regular price of one with the below code. Connect to Alexa on your phone and hear her through your car's speakers. Designed to hear you over traffic, music, and the A/C.These tiny smart speakers plug right into an AC outlet in your home so you can speak with Alexa, stream music from services like Spotify, control compatible smart home devices using only your voice, and more. Use the below code to save on a 2-pack.This beats the Black Friday pricing by $3 on each one, but you have to buy two at the same time to get this lowered price. Today's price is the lowest we've ever seen for the Dot. The discount works on the Essential and Foam series and covers sizes from Twin to California King. The mattresses use multiple layers of foam. Get a 100 night trial with the mattress. Try it out and if you don't like it return it for free. You get a price discount plus an extra 6% off using the on-page coupon. Has a 100-minute battery and will self-recharge when the battery gets low. Has suction up to 1300 Pa. Add Eufy C1 smart scale and use code EUFYSCALEC1 to get it free.Wyze indoor cameras record video in 1080p HD and feature night vision, 2-way audio, Alexa support, and more. What's even better is that these cameras don't require a monthly subscription in order to get the most out of them. Ekster's offering up to 45% off sitewide on its wallets, cases, and more when you use the appropriate promo code during checkout. CM35 saves you 35% on orders over $30, CM40 for 40% off $100 or more, and CM45 for 45% off $150 or more.These wireless earbuds feature integrated microphones and come with a charging case that can be charged wirelessly. Today's deal scores you nearly $30 off the usual cost when you clip the on-page coupon at Amazon.iPhone 6s has a 12MP rear camera and 5MP front-facing camera, 3D Touch display tech, and Apple's A9 processor. It also supports Apple's latest iOS 13 software. It's a great pick for a first phone and this deal saves you $100 off its regular cost.The software comes with five free federal e-files and unlimited federal prep. You'll also get one state program download. Guides you on maximum deductions and reporting assistance. Quickly imports your W-2 and other forms. The Ultraviolet with Midnight Blue color is an Amazon Exclusive, and this sale is the lowest yet. These are water resistant and have five hours of playtime per earbud. You'll get an extra 10 hours with the case. Use the app to find lost buds.We like Edifier. The company makes some great and affordable audio. Grab a pair of bookshelf speakers for Bluetooth music streaming or some true wireless earbuds for your own private listening. Two models of the well-reviewed OontZ Angle 3 Bluetooth speaker are now on sale for Cyber Monday, including the 3rd-gen speaker and a newer model which is fully waterproof and at its best price to date.Three well-reviewed Shark vacuum cleaners are now on sale at Amazon for just one day only, including the popular ZS351 Rocket Corded Ultra-Light Vacuum that's now down to its best price ever. This is a scalable and flexible mesh networking system that can blanket your whole home in Wi-Fi, eliminating dead zones and making it simple to use. You can add more as you need them. These routers handle up to 200 connected devices.From LEGO Star Wars to LEGO Marvel sets and even some other building blocks toys like Lincoln Logs and Playmobil toys, this sale at Amazon has a good number of deals you shouldn't miss if a LEGO fan is on your shopping list this holiday season.This Cyber Monday sale has just about everything you need to make your home the smartest one on the block. From ceiling fans to plugs, photo frames, and more, you won't want to miss this.This Android tablet becomes an Alexa-enabled speaker when docked and features a 10.1-inch HD display, Qualcomm Snapdragon 429 processor, 2GB RAM and 16GB storage. It can even support microSD cards up to 256GB. Today's price is a new low! We saw some great Black Friday deals on the Sonos Beam, Sub, and more (which are still alive!), and now the smaller speakers are on sale as well. This is the best price we've seen on the Sonos One SL, which is a new offering from the company.This one-day sale has a variety of different accessories, including keyboards, RAM, headsets, Wi-Fi extenders, monitor mounts, and more. Be sure to check out all the great options now. There are a bunch of different toys and dolls included in this sale that you'll want to check out. With up to 50% off, prices are starting at $7 or less.Whether you need a new hard drive, monitor, power supply, or router for your internet, this sale has you covered. There are tons of great deals here from popular brands like Netgear, TP-Link, BenQ, and more so be sure to check it out. It's down to just $300, which is $150 lower than it normally sells for. You can use this with Alexa or via the free mobile app. It's great for cleaning pet hair and works well on both carpet and hardwood floors. This price drop brings it to a new all-time low, but it will only stick around for today. This version of the Instant Pot has a large capacity, multiple cooking functions, and more. If you don't have one already, change that today!The M10 has a 10.1-inch HD display, Qualcomm Snapdragon 429 processor, 2GB RAM and 16GB storage with support for microSD cards up to 256GB. The best part is when this Android tablet is docked, it becomes a screen for Alexa to use.Two 23andMe DNA testing kits are on sale at Amazon for Cyber Monday, including one which can tell you all about your ancestors as well about your close family members from across the world, and another which gives an in-depth look at your health.
Embark lets you discover your dog's true breed from over 250 possibilities with the most accurate breed breakdown on the market. It also screens for over 170 genetic diseases like glaucoma and takes just 2-4 weeks to see results. This one-day sale has several different styles of Crocs available in a range of colors. Pricing starts at just $10 for the kids options, and goes up to $20 for the lined ones.There's just one day only to save on this wide selection of bikes, scooters, and helmets at Amazon for riders of all ages.There are two different options available here, the Smart Lock and the Smart Lock Pro with Wi-Fi bridge. These are up to 63% off thanks to this one-day sale, so don't miss out.Yi home security cameras are now up to 40% off at Amazon for Cyber Monday. Many of these cameras allow you to view their live stream anywhere you go using an app on your phone. There's even a dash cam thrown in the mix for your vehicle.This is a savings of $110 on Ninja's popular 8-quart all-in-one cooker. It combines a pressure cooker, air fryer, and more all into one gadget.From Samsung to HP, ASUS, and Acer, this Chromebook sale at Amazon includes some popular models at great low prices. Many options are now $100 off or more while supplies last. Has a 3-stage cleaning system for hard floors and carpet. The multi-surface brushes can grab even larger debris. Plus the cleaning head automatically adjusts its height. Smart enough to not get stuck and recharge when its 90-minute battery is low.
Now $170 off, this 2018 Mac Mini can get you into the Apple ecosystem for less than most other options. It features 8GB RAM, a 3.0 GHz 6-core Intel Core i5 processor, and a 256GB SSD. Amazon's Echo Show 5 is the latest Echo device with a screen. Now Alexa not just tells you everything you want to know, but shows you too! You can even stream shows and movies from services like Prime Video, music from Spotify, and more.At over 40% off, this is the best price ever seen on Instant Pot's new Vortex Plus Air Fryer Oven. It's a 7-in-1, 10-quart oven that is built to replace your outdated kitchen appliances and save you some space in the process.Score 12 months of access to Hulu's streaming service for only $1.99/month! You'll be hard-pressed to find a better way to spend less than $25, even with all the Cyber Monday sales going on now.This mechanical gaming keyboard is designed to help you win the game, from its Romer-G key switches with 1.5mm actuation to its Key Signal Processing system that can translate strokes up to 10 ms faster than the competition. Catch up with Chip & Dale, Darkwing Duck, Baloo and more classic Disney characters in this digital six-game collection for Xbox One.
This Nintendo Switch bundle at Best Buy includes the new, enhanced model of the console along with Mario + Rabbids: Kingdom Battle and Starlink: Battle for Atlantis Starter Pack. This Amazon-exclusive Funko Pop! is not only super-cool, featuring Han Solo at the helm of the iconic ship, but it is also down to its best-ever price right now. It measures 5.5 inches tall, 10.5 inches wide and 13.25 inches long. Keep your desk or nightstand looking neat and tidy with this 2-in-1 stand. It holds your phone with or without a case and has space for your Apple Watch cable to make it the perfect charging station. Use the coupon to save. Track your activity, customize the watch face, get notifications from your phone, use Garmin Pay, and more. The battery life lasts up to seven days and it's compatible with both iOS and Android.The charging station doubles as a dirt bin, and the i7+ drops off its own dirt. Your Roomba does all the work and texts you when the bag is full. It can learn multiple floor plans, and it can connect to your smart home.It's built for a family of four to six and can take the place of 10 kitchen appliances. There's a little microprocessor in there that monitors the pressure and temperature so you can always get it right. It's also UL-certified with safety features.The G602's 11 programmable buttons are rated for up to 20 million clicks and it uses Delta Zero sensor technology for up to 2,500 dpi. The mouse can last for 250 hours on one pair of batteries. It's never gone lower.The frame lets you share photos and videos from your phone or by email to the frame no matter where you are or where it is. Great gift for parents and grandparents so they can keep in touch. Manage the frame from iOS or Android with the free app. The Deebot is equipped with two side brushes and a main brush so it can sweep, lift, and vacuum an entire floor. Use other modes like Spot or Edge to clean specific areas. Lasts 110 minutes on one charge. Works with Alexa and Google Assistant. The specifications on this monitor include a 3440 x 1440 pixel resolution, a 75Hz refresh rate, and a 1ms response time when using Acer's Visual Response Boost. It's also HDR ready and has AMD's FreeSync technology. This is an SDXC card so you need to make sure your device can support it. The card is perfect for recording high-quality 4K video. Use it with a laptop, a Nintendo Switch, or any other device that needs a lot of storage. Has a 10 year warranty.Straight Talk plans don't require huge commitments with plans spanning only 30 days and prices starting at just $35. You'll get unlimited talk and text with 3GB of data on the least expensive plan.The credit gets applied within a week of the purchase. So you can use it on a future video game for your new console. The deal applies to every color variation on the product page, and you can just Redeem it instead of using the code.These pair with both iOS and Android via Bluetooth. With iOS you get voice commands via Siri access. With Android you get automatic sync and Ambient Aware Mode. The buds have six hours of battery with an extra seven from the case. This is a 2.1-channel speaker system with a control pod that makes the volume easy to control. The speakers have 25W of power and a compact subwoofer that can give you some bass. It's super easy to setup and works with any headphone jack input. Kit comes with one smart bridge, one dimmer switch, one Pico 3-button dimming remote, and one Pico wall plate bracket. Turn your dumb lights into smart ones. Works with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple HomeKit for voice control.This is a pair of speakers that includes a bass-reflex system. They have 5.25 inch cellular reinforced woofers and one inch polyester main tweeters with 0.75 inch Sony Super Tweeters for immersive sound staging. They have 100W maximum input power.This is a headset that uses your 2.4GHz wireless network. It's built for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 4 Pro and also works with your PC. Has a detachable mic, LED lighting, and 30 hours of battery life. Pick up any model of the Nintendo Switch Lite this weekend at GameStop to score a $25 coupon that can be used through next January! The Pokémon edition has already sold out, so don't delay any further!Add one of Eufy's EufyCamE wireless security cameras to your home for one of its best prices in history. You'll need to have either Eufy's HomeBase or HomeBase E already at home to use this camera. Works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. Use your phone to adjust the temperature and setup automatic scheduling. Saves you energy and money in the long run, too. It's smart enough to automatically adjust based on whether or not you're home.This slim wallet features RFID blocking and seven slots to hold your ID, credit cards, and cash. Every vehicle should have one of these battery chargers or jump starters handy in the trunk or glove box just in case. Thanks to Black Friday weekend, this one-day sale can save you up to 49% while supplies last. This Polar Express train set is easy to set up and comes with a remote that lets you control the train. It even features a working headlight, a whistle, and sound effects. Three AAA batteries and six C batteries are required.The 32GB model for $249 may have sold out, but now you can score this upgraded model with four times the storage capacity for less than $100 more. Don't wait 'til it's too late, as this one might sell out at any time too.Clip the on-page coupon at Amazon to save an extra $10 on this one-day Black Friday weekend deal! Eufy's Spaceview S features a large 5-inch 720p display so you can keep an eye on your baby at all times. It even allows you to pan the lens remotely.Has two batteries for hot swapping so it can go up to 60 minutes. Converts to handheld vacuum. Can go on max suction for 24 minutes for a deeper clean. Comes with 7 accessories and a two-year warranty.Now's your chance to save up to 25% on Leviton lighting controls before Amazon flips the switch on its Black Friday weekend deals and they disappear forever. The Rival 310 features a custom TrueMove 3 12,000 CPI, 350 IPS optical esports sensor with 1-to-1 tracking. It's ergonomically-designed for comfort and performance and it features RGB illumination allowing you to choose from over 16 million colors.This enhanced AncestryHealth Core test kit tells you quite a bit more than the standard Genetic Ethnicity Test kit from AncestryDNA, such as carrier status reports, wellness reports, how your DNA may influence certain health conditions, and more.The Sony Xperia 10 is a well-rounded mid-range phone and it's 50% off right now. It offers a 6-inch display with a 21:9 aspect ratio, two rear cameras, and expandable storage. It's unlocked to work on all major U.S. carriers, which is a huge perk.Make sure you're prepared for your next DIY project with this one-day sale at Amazon featuring a bevy of well-reviewed tools, from impact tools to air sanders, a reciprocation saw, and more.AmazonBasics items are already affordably priced, but thanks to this one-day sale, you can save up to 30% extra on Kids' playroom furniture like small table and chair sets, playmats, storage organizers, and more.These neat notebooks can be constantly reused. Your notes get blasted into the Cloud and you can wipe them away with a microfiber cloth and start again. Comes with different planning pages and works with the included pen. Amazon renewed these Dyson V6 Motorhead Cord-Free Vacuums on sale today to ensure they're in Like-New condition. Keep this vacuum docked and it's always charged and ready to go.
Use the mini HDMI or USB-C ports to connect your mobile device, gaming console, laptop, or other device and add a bit more real estate wherever you are. Comes with a smart cover and screen protector. Has a slim profile so it's easy to travel with.Add the Nano to your cart. Then look up the Anova Precision Vacuum Sealer and add that to your cart. The total should drop to just $80 for both. The Nano is a 750W cooker with Bluetooth for both iOS and Android mobile devices.This is a great device if you have a PC for streaming and a console for gaming or any other situation that requires transferring your video between two systems. This deal saves you $30 and has only been beaten by a few dollars in the past.The WD Red are designed for NAS systems so you can create your own highly durable media server. It supports a super heavy workload up to 180 TB a year. Supports NAS systems at home or in the office and comes with 3-year warranty. This medium-sized portable playpen measures 45" x 45" x 24", giving your pup a safe place to play and rest. Today's deal brings it down to a new low price at Woot while supplies last, and it even comes with a carrying case.Works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. Use your phone to adjust the temperature and setup automatic scheduling. Saves you energy and money in the long run, too. It's smart enough to automatically adjust based on whether or not you're home.The PowerCore has three USB outputs and a large enough capacity that you can not only charge three devices at once but provide enough power to get them all topped off. Also has two inputs for double the recharge speed.This deal includes a full year subscription to Mylio Create and two months of Adobe Creative Cloud's Photography Plan. The drive works for Mac and Windows and connects via USB 3.0 for super fast transfer times. For the home or the office. The thin bezel, curved screen, and 1440p resolution immerse you into the screen whether you're playing or working. Has great multi-tasking for handling several projects. Works as a console monitor, too. The headphones have 50mm high-density neudymium audio drivers. Constructed with a breathable microfiber mesh fabric and plush memory foam earpads for comfort over long sessions. Omnidirectional mic picks up your voice. Has flip-up to mute function.Ting saves you money on your monthly phone bill by charging you for data you actually use, rather than some costly unlimited plan that's not even truly unlimited. Earn $50 to put towards your account for free by joining through the following link.Forget needing a car to get around a busy city, get one of these instead. With a top speed of 15.5 MPH and a high-capacity battery, you can travel far and fast. Today's deal saves you 51% off its full retail price, but it won't last for long.HP's Black Friday sale is in full swing right now with dozens of items to save on. The Envy 13t is one such item. It has a Core i7 4.9GHz processor, a 1080p 13.3-inch screen, and a 256GB SSD. Upgrade and customize to some crazy specs.Today's deal is for a digital code that can be used to download the game onto your console. You'll receive the code quickly via email so you can begin playing today!Zagg is a popular brand that makes cases and accessories for all kinds of mobile devices. The store includes a lot of like-minded brands like Mophie and InvisibleShield. You can buy up to 10 items with this sale and save 40% on the whole order.Premium phone cases, screen protectors, charging cables, and more are included in RhinoShield's huge Black Friday sale. Items are already up to 60% off, and using the following promo code saves you an additional 10% off your purchase!These days, you need a microSD card that can efficiently handle the large file sizes of 4K recordings and high-res photos. This microSD card has Class 10, U3, and V30 performance and up to 100MB/s read speed so it's got you covered. These easy-to-use fire extinguishers each include 2.5 pounds of fire extinguishing agent, a rust- and impact-resistant nylon handle, and a 6-year limited warranty. Not only that, but Target has an ongoing Black Friday deal where if you spend $50 you get a coupon for 20% off a future purchase. Also, Target Circle has a 15% off in-store coupon for Philips Hue, bringing the total down to $67.99 in store.The Breville Convection + Air Fry Smart Oven features 13 cooking functions to help you in the kitchen, from toasting to broiling, baking or roasting, warming, proofing, reheating, slow cooking, etc... There are even Pizza and Cookies settings.This wireless charger is optimized and MFi-certified for use with iPhones, with the ability to charge them 50% faster than standard wireless chargers thanks to its 7.5W fast charge capability. You can charge other Qi-compatible devices with it too.The 5200 has variable speed control that's easy to adjust based on the texture you want. Make large 64 ounce batches. Can even make hot soup since the blades move so fast. Clean it easily with a drop of soap and water. Has 7-year warranty. One of the best portable Bluetooth speakers of the year, the StormBox has 360 degrees of immersive sound. It also uses XBass technology activated with a button press to make your chest thump with the deep lows. It's waterproof and lasts 20 hours.The DS218+ is a two-bay NAS with 2GB DDR3 memory, a dual-core 2.5 GHz processor, hardware encryption, and encrypted sequential read and write speeds. Has live transcoding and three USB 3.0 ports. Some of Potensic's best drones yet are on sale for Black Friday. You can score a major discount by using the appropriate promo code during checkout; some of these deals also require that you clip an on-page coupon at Amazon where available.Whether you're a streamer or just want to be present for some remote video calls, the C920S is a great webcam. It can record in 1080p resolution and uses a glass lens so your videos are always crisp and vibrant. It has autofocus and light correction.Mophie's gear rarely drops in price, but it we saw some neat Black Friday deals. This battery rarely goes below $40 but dropped to $15 over the weekend before selling out — but now it's back! It has 2 USB ports and a 6000mAh capacity. These headphones have Bluetooth, NFC pairing, a built-in mic for hands-free communication, an over-ear design for a secure fit, and active noise-cancellation. Uses a rechargeable battery and comes with a carrying case and 2-year warranty.The Furbo Treat-Tossing Dog Camera lets you reward your pet, even while you're not at home. You'll be able to check in on your pet using an app on your phone, hear and speak to them, and even send out a treat with the press of a button.Various colors of the highly-reviewed JBL Clip 3 Bluetooth speaker are now down to just $30 each thanks to Black Friday. They can last for up to 10 hours on a single charge and feature an integrated carabiner with IPX7 waterproof protection.Status Audio is having a Black Friday sale on three pairs of comfortable Bluetooth 5.0 headphones. You can pick between over-ear or in-ear headphones now at their best prices in Amazon history.The Ultra is Roku's best device with the fastest processor and this is its best price ever. It has a fast channel launch, a lost remote finder, enhanced voice search, and more. It comes with JBL Premium headphones for private listening too.There are a ton of options available in this sale, and pricing starts at just $6 for some of these items. Be sure to check out all the pages of the sale so you don't miss any great deals.Choose between the LG Stylo 5 or the LG G8 ThinQ smartphone for up to 50% off during this Black Friday sale at Amazon. That's easily the best deal we've seen reach either model.It has more than 60 never-before-seen surprises including a few exclusives to Amazon. You get one exclusive millennial girls fashion doll, one boy, one pet, and much more. Amazon has a selection of Contigo water bottles and travel mugs on sale for Black Friday with prices starting as low as $7. Don't miss your opportunity to grab one at some of their best prices to date.Every good streamer needs good gear. Grab a new USB mic from Razer, an Elgato streaming deck, or upgrade your network with router and cable modem deals from Netgear and TP-Link. All of these products are down to super low prices. The Moto G6 is the least expensive option at just $119.99. The Moto Z4 will set you back $389.99, but that's still a $100 discount. Find prices in between on the other models. Great deals every which way. Cooking once for the week really can be helpful to keep you on track, but only if you have containers that will help you store all that food. These will help keep your meals fresh, so you don't waste anything!Never set up a mesh networking system before? Cover yourself in that warm Wi-Fi blanket this Black Friday. You could also upgrade your cable modem and router with some great deals or just extend the range of your current system to cover dead zones.Amazon is offering one of the best deals ever seen on the Apple Watch Series 5 this Black Friday. You'll save an additional $24 off its price at checkout. Various sizes and colors are on sale, too!You'll save from a variety of brands including Acer, Lenovo, Dell, and more. Grab a slim laptop like the Acer Aspire 5, a pre-built desktop like the Dell Inspiron 3470, or a 34-inch curved USB-C monitor from LG. All discounted big time. Choose between Shark's ION P50 cordless upright stick vacuum or the Shark Wandvac handheld vacuum and save up to 60% while supplies last! This sale brings both options down to new low prices at Amazon.These games involve a variety of playing styles, including card games like Cards Against Humanity or Escape Room games like Exit: The Secret Lab. The prices are low but the fun level is high. Impress your friends at the next party. Toss chicken wings, french fries, veggies, and more into this air fryer's 3-quart basket and can cook them faster than in the oven and without oil. This is a new record-low price for Black Friday and the discount applies to all color options. One of the most popular Instant Pots is now down to its best price in Amazon history for just one day only! This 8-quart model combines seven kitchen appliances into one to save you space and help you finish preparing dinner quicker.That's right, this robot vacuum will empty its own dust bin into the base when it's full, and the base can hold up to 30 days worth of dust and debris. It has a self-cleaning brush roll, strong suction, and so much more.Control this smart robotic vacuum cleaner using an app on your phone, or even with your voice! It's compatible with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, and today's one-day deal brings it to a new low price by over $100.This Black Friday deal saves you $80 and brings it back to the lowest price we've ever seen. This model has a pressure cooker, air fryer, and tender crisper all built into one.There are four Garmin watches on sale here: the Vivoactive 3, Approach S20, Forerunner 645, and Fenix 5S. Each one has a number of different colors you can choose from, and each one does something a little different. Start Black Friday shopping with this one-day sale on gaming PCs, monitors, and more at Amazon. You'll find picks from Razer, LG, Acer, SteelSeries, and more top brands at great low prices while supplies last. You're going to be filing taxes soon anyway, so why not grab this while it's discounted? It also comes with a $10 Amazon gift card.Freetime Unlimited unlocks access to a vast selection of kid-friendly apps, games, movies, TV shows, eBooks, and even music that your child can enjoy on a tablet or phone. You can score a three-month membership for only $1 right now!Time's ticking on this Black Friday sale on Mobvoi smartwatches offering new low prices while supplies last at Amazon and Mobvoi's website. You can also save on the TicPods true wireless earbuds right now.With this smart TV's built-in WebOS platform, you'll be able to binge-watch shows and movies from services like Netflix and Hulu without needing a separate streaming device. It can even be voice controlled with Google Assistant or Alexa. For less than $28, you'll score all eight original Harry Potter movies. From Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone to Deathly Hallows: Part 2, this set is the perfect pickup for new Potter fans or those looking to relive all the movie magic at home.Grow plants and herbs indoors with the compact AeroGarden Harvest 360. It's equipped with a high-performance, 20-watt LED high efficiency grow lighting system to meet the needs of your plants year-round. The deal lasts through December 6 and it helps you save an additional 40% on the price of a used phone. Uptrade has various iPhone, Samsung Galaxy, Pixel, and OnePlus devices to pick from, in a variety of conditions.Now's your chance to save $90 on the 5-piece Ring Alarm security kit which includes a base station, contact sensor, motion detector, keypad, and a range extender. You can add more pieces later and even get professional monitoring at $10/month.There are four different models available here ranging in price from just $100 up to $630. Samsung makes some great tablets, and if you are in the market for an Android tablet, these are the ones to consider.These earbuds use Bluetooth 5.0 technology for a solid, unbreakable link between your earbuds and your streaming device. The battery lasts up to 5 hours with an extra 15 hours from the charging case. Clip the on-page coupon for the full savings.This AC1200 dual band router can reliably offer internet for up to 20 different devices. It has wired ethernet ports on the back, covers 1,200 square feet, and even has a USB connection on the back.K-Cups may not be the best coffee out there, but there is no denying the convenience that they bring into your life. Right now you can bundle a brewer with a variety of K-Cups and save big on the purchase.These operate on AA batteries that are designed to last for up to two years so you can install them just about anywhere. They can be used inside or outside so take your pick. All the kits are 25% off and get you an Echo Dot at no extra cost.Choose from various laptops, desktops, Chromebooks, monitors, and accessories with some stellar price drops in HP's sale. There are also extra 5% or 10% discounts on select PCs over $999 or $1,399 with the below codes.Install this tiny Ring camera in place of your door's peephole to keep an eye on your front porch from anywhere in the world using an app on your phone, or with the included Echo Show 5. This bundle even comes with a rechargeable battery pack.There are plenty of portable hard drives out there, but SSDs don't have moving parts which means they're more durable. That also means they can get pricey. Today's deal gets you the best of both worlds with a record low price on this 1TB model.Featuring a 5.83-inch HD display, 8MP rear camera, 5MP selfie camera, and 2GB RAM, this is one of the most affordable smartphones on the market, and this Black Friday sale brings its price even lower!Several MacBook Air configurations are discounted by $199, but you can save an extra $100 when you choose to check out with No-Rush Shipping. That means you can snag one at its best price yet for the sake of waiting a few extra days for it to arrive.Use the prepaid package in this kit to send a saliva sample to AncestryDNA's testing lab. You'll soon receive an ethnicity estimate with information on where your ancestors are from, how they moved around the world over time, and more.Forget about buying Sonos speakers one by one; this 3.1 Entertainment Set comes with the Sonos Playbar and Sonos Sub at a price that's never been reached before until today! The 5.1 Entertainment Set is on sale today as well.Amazon's one-day deal on this 1080p HD gaming monitor from ViewSonic saves you $30 off its usual cost. It comes with a 3-year warranty and includes HDMI, DVI, and VGA inputs. If you're in the market for one of Apple's latest iPad models, you're going to want to check this out. The 2019 iPad Air's screen size jumped up to 10.5 inches and it now packs in Apple's A12 Bionic chipset. It's never gone this low before.Today's one-day deal at Amazon saves you $30 off this microSD card's average cost, and it also marks the best price it's ever reached there! It's a Class 10 microSD card and even comes with a 10-year manufacturer's limited warranty.The All-new Kindle Oasis was released this past summer and features one of the largest screens on a Kindle device to date, along with a higher number of LEDs for its screen light, making it easier to read anywhere you go!Magic Mouse 2 is a rechargeable version of its predecessor meaning you no longer need to stock up on AA batteries. It has a multi-touch surface that allows you to perform gestures such as swiping between web pages and scrolling through documents.With two 7-cup round dishes, three 4-cup round dishes, three 2-cup dishes, and four 1-cup round bowls, this set is safe to use in the oven, fridge, freezer, and microwave. They don't absorb food odors, flavors, or stains either.Start playing online with other players in compatible Nintendo Switch games with a year-long membership to Nintendo Switch Online at $5 off its usual cost. This Black Friday deal won't last forever, so don't wait!This light will help you wake up without feeling grumpy with its sunrise effect, and its FM radio or wake sounds are better than your phone alarm. It can also simulate a sunset to help you relax and fall asleep. Clip the on-page coupon to save.This tiny smart speaker plugs right into an AC outlet in your home so you can speak with Alexa, stream music from services like Spotify, control compatible smart home devices using only your voice, and more.If you're in the hunt for an Apple Pencil this Black Friday, now is the time to grab one! Right now on Amazon, you can pick up the first-generation Apple Pencil for just $79, a saving of $20, or 20%, off the usual price of $99.The Nintendo Switch controllers go on sale so rarely, but today's discount matches their Prime Day record-low. There are a few different colors to choose from, but you want to grab a set before they sell out. The Sub is Sonos' wireless subwoofer for deeper bass. Pair it with a Sonos Beam, Playbar, or Playbase for an incredible home theater experience with crystal clear bass you can feel. Both the black and white models are on sale.This is a brand new bundle from Amazon. The Fire TV Blaster adds voice control to any TV, sound bar, or other entertainment device. Combined with the media streaming device and smart speaker, you get full voice control over your media.If you've got a Switch Lite, you need a way to protect it when you take it on the go like this hard shell case with internal storage for cartridges and accessories. Prime members can use the on-page coupon and the below code to save on it.This Alexa-compatible vac uses a dual-gyro system and motion tracking sensors to clean your floors in the most efficient way possible. It won't fall down stairs or get stuck on obstacles and the battery gives it 2.5 hours of cleaning.Built with sport in mind, the Powerbeats Pro have the same Apple smarts as AirPods but in a design that prioritizes comfort and stability. These earbuds last up to 9 hours with 24 hours from the charging case. They are also sweat and water resistant.Normally it sells for $399 and does not drop from that price often. Right now, only the black model is available at $299, and the white one is $20 more.This 7-in-1 cooker is insanely versatile and can help you cook some great meals this winter. If you don't already have an Instant Pot, grab one today and thank us later.Featuring a beautiful edge-to-edge display, powerful A12X Bionic processor, plus Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard support, the latest iPad Pro is a powerhouse. Various configurations are on sale with up to $250 off while supplies last.This is about $30 less than it was selling for in the lead up to Black Friday and is a new all-time low for this model. It has Amazon's Fire TV OS built right in to make streaming your favorite videos even easier.Save on actual PC components like a computer case, liquid cooling, fans, and others. You can also save money on mechanical keyboards, mouse pads, headphones, and more from brands like Corsair and Kensington. All the sizes are on sale, and pricing starts at just $184 for a twin and goes up to $321 for a king, so why are you still reading this and not buying one?This sale includes hard drives, flash drives, microSD cards, and even personal cloud storage devices. You can get low-capacity flash drives or 10TB hard drives, and they are all down to super low prices covered by full warranties.The S5 uses smart navigation to map your house and plan its own routes to clean, though you can also control it with an app on your phone or with your voice. Clipping the coupon on its product page saves you $140 off its usual price at Amazon!These doorbuster deals will only last for one day. The products include a variety of brands and products, including low prices on monitors, gaming mice, tablets, and more. Upgrade your router, your surround sound speakers, or laptop.Whether you need the basic 5-piece kit or want to go all-out with the 14-piece option, you can save big right now. Each of them comes with a free Echo Dot, which you can use to arm and disarm the alarm now.You'll need to enter the coupon during check out, and the $30 credit will be delivered to you within 7-days of your Switch shipping.The deal applies to both physical and digital gift cards right now so you can take your pick. A 20% discount is rare and you can put those savings to good use on purchases on games, digital movies and music, apps, subscriptions, and more.This one-day sale has 12 different options, ranging in price from $175 to $245. These are all powered by Google's WearOS and can connect to your smartphone with ease.You may have to go to the actual product page to see some of these savings. The keyboard has an aluminum frame. It's plug-and-play so no drivers needed. Has anti-ghosting, both a USB wire and Bluetooth connectivity, and can switch between 3 devices.With Black Friday pricing hitting a bunch of Amazon Echo devices, you can now score the super-popular Echo Dot with an Amazon Smart Plug for just $5 extra. Use it to add voice control to a dumb appliance, set schedules, and more. We've been waiting for this one to come, and it's finally here. Treat yourself to Google's Pixel 3a or 3a XL and save $100 right now. At this price, you won't find a better camera on a smartphone.The thermostat is Alexa compatible so you can use the Echo Dot to control it and change the temperature. Works with HVAC equipment and can save you 23% on energy costs over a year. Has flexible scheduling, remote access, and more.The bundle comes with a battery charger, an extra battery, and a 64GB microSD card. Basically everything you need to film all day. The Hero7 has HyperSmooth video stabilization, Time Warps, 4K recording at 60 fps, and an easy-to-use touchscreen.Plug these in and see, hear, and speak to people or pets from your phone, tablet, or Echo device. Connect all your Ring devices together and watch your entire home. Get notifications when motion is detected. Use the smart display to talk to Alexa, control your smart home, and view security camera feeds. You can manage your calendar, make to-do lists, get weather and traffic updates, and more. Setup video calls with friends and family. Personalize it, tooThis speaker has premium speakers powered by Dolby that play sound in 360 degrees. They have a powerful bass and crisp vocals. Use Alexa to stream music from your favorite spots or just control your smart home. This smart speaker lets kids play music, listen to stories, call friends and family, and more. Parental controls let you approve numbers to call, set daily limits, and automatically filter songs. Comes with 2-year worry-free guarantee. Premium stereo speakers with Dolby processing, a 10.1-inch HD screen, built-in Alexa, and more. Use it in the kitchen to watch recipe videos or set timers. Set it up with Zigbee compatible devices. Talk to Alexa. Originally only available via invite, now anyone can get the Echo Auto. And it's on sale for $20 off the regular price. Connect to Alexa on your phone and play her through your car's speakers. Designed to hear you over traffic, music, and the a/c. The Input connects via 3.5mm audio or Bluetooth and gives you a way to add Alexa to a speaker that wouldn't have it otherwise. This way you can use your awesome old-school speakers and play music with your voice. Get two years of life on a set of AA batteries, two-way audio, live view, motion recording, and free cloud storage. These cameras work with Alexa so you can see motion clips, view the feeds live, and more. Records 1080p video with night vision. The shipping is delayed on this one, but the price is worth the wait. The LED display can show you the time, outdoor temperatures, or timers. Use the speaker to talk to Alexa, set alarms, play music, or pair with a second Echo Dot for stereo sound. Amazon's most popular smart speaker is going to get a lot more popular at this price point. Use the Echo Dot to talk to Alexa, control your smart home with your voice, play music, or set up an intercom between Echo Dots throughout the home.Grab a new Instant Pot, some popular video games, a Nintendo Switch bundle with Mario Kart 8, a new 4K TV, and more. The iRobot Roomba 670 is down to $197. Dyson's V7 Motorhead vacuum is $179. Women's clothing is 60% off. Earlier this year Eero released a new set of routers, and right now they are on sale with prices starting at just $70. If you've been looking to get a new Wi-Fi router or upgrade to a mesh network, now's the time.This bundle comes with the purple and silver Nintendo 2DS XL hardware as well as Mario Kart 7 pre-installed. It normally sells for about $21 more than this, and has never dropped this low before.This wireless controller by PowerA is officially licensed by Nintendo and built to resemble the classic GameCube controller. Purple and Gray variants are now $16 off for the first time ever at Amazon!
This is Neato's highest-spec model which features a D-shaped design for getting in places that other robot vacuums can't. It has laser-guided mapping, works well across various floor types, and can clean for up to 120 minutes before recharging.The FileHub works overtime to back up, transfer or stream data between devices like your phone, tablet, and PC, while also coming in handy on-the-go as a wireless travel router. Use the on-page coupon and enter the following code at checkout to save.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
