Take advantage of this deal while it lasts! This Amazon Choice Product features Bluetooth 5.0, noise-cancellation built-in, and an incredible 35-hour battery life. Those are extremely high-end features, all for less than $100.Don't want to carry a full portable battery around? Ensure you always have backup power on your keychain with this clever keychain charger.This cost-effective Sonicare alternative makes the perfect stocking stuffer. With as much power as a Sonicare electric brush, the AquaSonic Black Series cleans your teeth effectively and has modes for every type of teeth.Give the gift of elite home security without breaking the bank. The Dome Pro has a number of AI-enhanced features like facial recognition, motion detection, and stranger recognition and streams everything to a chosen device in 1080p HD.These high-powered earbuds are completely wireless, letting you enjoy your music without dealing with tangled or caught wires. Plus, they're significantly more affordable than other wireless earbuds on the market.For the adventurer, this pocket translator will be a lifesaver. With just the click of a button, this pocket-sized device will translate what you speak into any of 12 different languages in real-time, making it much easier to travel around new countries.Charge your Apple devices on-the-go, at home, and in the car with this bundle of charging accessories. All are MFi-Certified, guaranteeing them to work with your Apple device.Amazing sound, amazing price. This Bluetooth speaker will bring the party anywhere — even in the pool — and you won't have to tell anyone it was just $20.Know somebody with a new iPhone? Help them charge it faster with this minimalistic, fast-charging wireless charging pad. It works with any Qi-Certified phone so it'll work for your favorite Android user, too!Another great gift for the outdoorsy types on your list, this rugged power bank packs 5,000mAh of battery power and works with virtually all devices. Plus, it has a built-in flashlight for use at night and in emergency situations. 

I agree to the Entrepreneur Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
