








        Business Insider
      

Updated 11/29/19 at 4:10 p.m. ETKohl's Black Friday deals are very competitive this year — more than a few of the best deals on the internet are housed here. While Kohl's tends to match the prices of competitors on popular products, it's also offering additional discounts and Kohl's Cash to sweeten them further.For every $50 you spend through November 29, you'll also receive $15 in Kohl's Cash that can be redeemed November 30 through December 9. That's basically free money to use on future purchases.Plus, also through November 29, you'll get 15% off your purchase with the code "GIVETHANKS" at checkout, though some items are excluded. You'll also receive free shipping at Kohls.com when you spend $25 between November 25 to December 4. 








        Kohl's
      

   Yes, Kohl's typically offers in-store pick-up for most items. However, since Kohl's is lowering its free shipping minimum to $25, you'll likely get free shipping without trying.Kohl's lets you return items within 180 days of purchase, except premium electronics which must be returned within 30 days. For the holidays, premium electronics purchased from November 1 through December 25 can be returned by January 31 with original packaging and a receipt or account to track the order. Learn more here. Kohl's is offering free standard shipping when you spend $25 or more from November 25 through December 4. Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.