Upping one's own pajama game is hard to make a priority. Why invest in PJs when you could spend money on clothes you actually wear outside? That's why a nice set of pajamas (or a sleep accessory) makes a delightful holiday gift. You're doing the investing for someone else, and you're making them cozy to boot. You are a saint!Consider these 13 pajama and pajama-adjacent gifts for that person in your life who could stand to be a little more comfortable. And if that person is you? Even better, honestly.
Image:  Target
You're never too old for a set of indescribably corny, inappropriate-for-11-months-of-the-year holiday pajamas. For maximum impact, pick one printed with holiday... dinosaurs?
Image:  L.L. Bean
If you know festive holiday pajamas will go unappreciated, opt for a warm, practical flannel set instead. You can even sneak in a little cheer by picking a holiday-ish print.
Image:  Target
For someone who appreciates a little aesthetic luxury — and, ideally, doesn't get cold easily. (You could also do silk, but that would be substantially more expensive.)
Image:  Parachute
If someone doesn't appreciate a cozy robe, can you trust them? We say no.
Image:  J.Crew
Flannel pajamas can be a little too hot for people whose radiators go wild in the wintertime. Compromise with 100 percent cotton — truly a pajama fabric for all seasons.SEE ALSO: 13 gifts for people with acid reflux
Image:  Lou & Grey
Fuzzy slippers are even better when they're a vivid, fun color. Plus, you'll never lose them! Not that slippers are easy to lose, but better safe than sorry.
Image:  Lunya
With the exception of houseplants, gifts shouldn't create more work for the recipient. This washable sleep mask from Lunya is made of 100 percent silk, but it's also machine washable.
Image:  eBay
No shame in an adult nightlight. Here's one shaped like a crab.
Image:  Pajamagram
It's important to match your dog as often as possible. Make sure your recipient's dog is cool with wearing pajamas, though.
Image:  Nordstrom
A onesie as everyday pajamas seems unhinged. What if you have to pee before bed? What if you have to change your tampon? Why lock yourself in a logic puzzle when you could simply wear normal pants? Against all odds, though, some people like pajama onesies (if only for whimsy). Here is a fun one.
Image:  The White Company
Yes, wearing socks to bed is generally frowned upon (although not by everyone), but pre-bed socks are a luxury everyone can agree on.
Image:  The Vermont Flannel Company
Add a nightcap and a kerosene lamp and it doubles as Ebenezer Scrooge cosplay. 
Image:  L.L. Bean
We don't know anyone with these slippers who doesn't love them. More than a few people — both IRL and in reviews — assert that they pass the ultimate slipper test: That is, they're cozy and warm without making your feet sweat.
Every product here is independently selected by Mashable journalists. If you buy something featured, we may earn an affiliate commission which helps support 
our work.
