It’s been another year of big 5G promises, and while we’ve seen the first 5G devices hit the market and an ever-increasing number of ads touting the glory of 5G speeds over the past 12 months, the tech still isn’t worth the money for the average smartphone user. That’s especially true for most of T-Mobile’s new “Nationwide 5G” network.T-Mobile might call its 5G network Nationwide 5G, but it’s not real 5G. Like other carriers, T-Mobile uses what’s called “low-band” 5G, as opposed to the faster “millimeter wave” (mmWave) or high-band 5G. The latter is the “true” 5G technology, as it takes advantage of an  unused spectrum of radio frequencies for faster communication and data speeds. Low-band 5G, on the other hand, is technically 5G, but it can’t match the performance of mmWave.The trade-off is that low-band 5G has better range and is easier to get up and running since, in some cases, carriers can piggyback off pre-existing network technology. On the flip side, mmWave 5G requires all-new hardware, and would-be smartphone speed racers must contend with the mmWave’s inherently limited range.While AT&T and Verizon are busy building out their high-band networks that will offer a “true” 5G experience—a slow process—T-Mobile has been leveraging its access to low-band frequencies to spread its 5G network at a much faster rate. However, the performance you get across its network can vary greatly.PCMag’s Sascha Segan recently posted the results of a weeks-long test of T-Mobiles 5G network using the upcoming One Plus 7T Pro McLaren 5G smartphone. Segan visited and tested the 5G speeds in over 22 US cities on T-Mobile’s network, and the results aren’t great.According to Segan’s testing, most cities in T-Mobile’s network are often barely faster than 4G speeds and, in some select cases, are even slower than 4G—though there were a few where the 5G speeds markedly outperformed 4G:T-Mobile uses either 20MHz, 30MHz, or 40MHz of spectrum for its low-band 5G, and cities that use 40MHz spectrum (and have little-to-no TV signal interference) tend to deliver solid boosts to your mobile network speed. In all other cities, 5G had marginal improvements, at best, with many showing no improvement over 4G at all. And in New York, 5G was much slower than 4G.Such lackluster speeds seem to defeat the whole purpose of a 5G network in the first place, and it calls into question whether an upgrade to 5G is worth it—unless you happen to be a T-Mobile customer with a 5G phone and live in one of the few cities where T-Mobile can tap into 40MHz spectrum.However, Segan’s results highlight another major issue with 5G: carriers can still legally call this 5G—even if it barely surpasses or is even slower than 4G—since 5G refers to the type of signal, not the network speed. That makes it easy for customers to think they’re getting 5G “speeds” when they’re simply using a device that sends and receives 5G signals. The speeds are dependant on the network performance, not just the phone’s capabilities.It gets worse: As we’ve covered before, many 5G networks and devices will bump users down to 4G LTE without warning and still claim to be on 5G; In fact, some devices flat-out lie about whether you’re on 5G or not. It’s not a good look, and it should make you think about whether you even need to buy a 5G device in the near future. In many cases, there’s not much for that 5G to actually take advantage of.Despite T-Mobile’s underwhelming 5G report card from PCMag, 5G has room to grow. Network performance and availability are getting better, and there remains a wealth of untapped 5G frequencies that companies will begin using in 2020 and beyond.5G devices are also getting better, and some can even combine 4G and 5G simultaneously for faster speeds than either 4G or 5G alone—such as the OnePlus 7T Pro 5G McLaren that Segan used for testing. They’re still not quite worth the jump in price, but they’ll hopefully get closer next year.With just about every major US cellphone service provider prepping their 5G network rollouts,…But even with the technology slowly improving, the logistical issues of 5G must be overcome before it becomes the widespread standard so many companies are aiming for. These challenges include material issues like the high power requirements and steep price tags of 5G devices, as well as infrastructure problems like mmWave 5G signals being easily blocked by everyday obstacles like cloudy weather (or even your hand).It’s because of precisely those issues that I’m of the same opinion on 5G in the closing weeks of 2019 that I was at the end of 2018: It’s just not worth it. Not yet, at least.