TL;DR: Get the health-conscious Chefman 6L Digital Multi-Functional Air Fryer for $127, a 15% savings. Food is no longer just about sustenance or taste. It’s now a full-blown movement.Food-related entertainment dominates our TV screens and streaming services. It steers the cultural conversation and dictates our social lives. Where we once discussed last night’s game by the water cooler, we now swap messages over Slack about that Netflix show with all the British people freaking out over baked goods.We’re in the middle of a food revolution. And if you have no idea what the previous paragraph was talking about, then it’s possible you’ve been left behind. Fortunately, it doesn’t have to be this way. You have options, options that will pull you out of your culinary abyss and thrust you into your own cooking revolution. And the option a lot of people are picking these days is an air fryer. It was a big hit during Black Friday in 2018 and we're willing to bet it's going to be a big deal for 2019 too.SEE ALSO: These are the best air fryersAn air fryer is essentially a miniaturized convection oven. Food goes in, hot air spins around, and dinner is served. But unlike a standard convection oven, an air fryer coats food in a thin layer of oil as the hot air circulates, giving it that crisp outer layer — without the excessive fat. And because the smaller space requires much less heat, it’s unlikely your food will overcook. Of course, not all air fryers are created equal. Some, like the Chefman Digital Multi-Functional Air Fryer, do tricks that may actually cause you to forget about the real oven in the kitchen. Check it out:Along with cooking, air frying, and baking, the Chefman has a dehydrate setting ideal for fruit and jerky. Two air flow racks allow you to cook multiple dishes at the same time, and a rotating basket ensures bigger cuts of meat are cooked evenly. There’s also a rotisserie function, which might turn the biggest air fryer skeptic into a believer once they’ve tried some chicken wings. Granted, the 6-liter capacity won’t handle a 12-lb Thanksgiving turkey, but it is big enough to accommodate family-sized dishes like pizza, salmon fillets, and roast potatoes. With a removable drip tray and dishwasher safe parts, it’s also easy to clean; a quality absent from similar appliances, and one of the main reasons so many end up at the back of the cupboard after the first use. The Chefman might not turn you into the next Gordon Ramsey, or even Guy Fieri (sorry Guy, the internet still loves you), but it will give you the confidence to try new dishes and the resolve to reject take out. Which, if you ask us, is a food revolution in itself.Grab the 6L Chefman Multi-Functional Air Fryer for $127 — that’s 15% off the regular price.







Chefman 6L Digital Multi-Functional Air Fryer — $127
See Details

Heads up: All products featured here are selected by Mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. If you buy something, Mashable may earn an affiliate commission. 
