Scooter Braun says his family has received "numerous death threats" since Taylor Swift publicly accused him and Scott Borchetta of blocking her from performing old songs at the American Music Awards last week.After criticizing Swift during a Q&A on Thursday for sparking a social-media war, Braun said he felt obligated to take his concerns to Instagram early Friday morning."I came home tonight to find my wife had received a phone call threatening the safety of our children as well as other threats seen above," Braun wrote in a statement. "I won't go into details of this past week. I have been at a loss."
@taylorswiftA post shared by  Scooter Braun (@scooterbraun) on Nov 22, 2019 at 12:09am PSTNov 22, 2019 at 12:09am PST
The record-label owner went on to say he had "gone through a range of emotions" on how to deal with Swift's accusations that he and Borchetta, the founders of Big Machine Label Group, were blocking her from performing her old music."I write this now only after a deep breathe and much reflection," he continued. "I am certain there is no situation ever worth jeopardizing anyone's safety."Braun also added a screenshot of a death threat to his Instagram story in which a person said they would buy a gun and shoot his whole family.While he acknowledged that he didn't think Swift was intending to cause any harm, he reminded her that her "words carry a tremendous amount of weight." Swift has approximately 207 million followers between her Instagram and Twitter accounts.He further described his feud with the singer as a "toxic division," saying Swift had refused to negotiate with him despite her team and mutual friends trying to arrange private meetings with him."My attempts and calls to have an open discussion with you over the last 6 months have all been rejected ... It almost feels as if you have no interest in ever resolving the conflict," he added."As the world now knows you can and should perform any song you would like at the AMAs. I have never and would never say otherwise. You do not need anyone's permission to do so legally but I am stating it here early and publicly so there is no more debate or confusion."








        Braun said Taylor Swift had "rejected" any kind of open discussion.
      
Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for ABA

While Braun said he was "frustrated" with the singer's very public statements, he ultimately said he was still hoping to patch things up with her."If you prefer to make large public statements while refusing to work towards resolving things amicably then I just pray that nobody gets seriously hurt in the process," he concluded. "I continue to wish you the best and hope we can resolve this."Braun blocked comments on the Instagram post, and Swift is yet to publicly respond.Read more:Scooter Braun finally spoke out about his feud with Taylor Swift and urged her to talk with him: 'People need to communicate'Scooter Braun posted a quote on Instagram saying 'kindness is the only response' amid his feud with Taylor SwiftTaylor Swift will get to perform at the AMAs, according to her former label Big Machine RecordsLike what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
