I’ll admit I do have a tendency to speak in hyperbole, but this time I’m making an exception only because Hyundai’s truck shows ‘truckloads’ of promise. I’m talking clean energy-burning, hydrogen-fuel-cell powered, autonomous driving, zero emissions, zero noise semi-truck with an ergonomic design that looks splendid from the outside and provides a stunning panoramic view on the inside. I love my cushy desk-job, but damn, if I had a chance to be a trucker with a Hyundai HDC-6 Neptune, I’d probably give it all up in a heartbeat.Inspired by the aesthetic of the 1936 Mercury Train, Hyundai’s latest semi concept channels the art-deco beauty of the machine, giving it a suitable revival in the form of a sufficiently advanced truck capable of wowing people. The HDC-6 Neptune relooks the semi-truck typology by redesigning it around Hyundai’s zero-emission fuel-cell technology. The truck features a panoramic cockpit with a skylight that offers an incredible amount of sunlight during the day, giving the interiors a rather glamping-inspired touch. The truck comes with autonomous driving capabilities, allowing the driver to kick back and watch movies on a HUD built right into the truck’s windshield, or take relaxation to another level with the shape-shifting cabin that comes with two levels. As impressive as the insides are (enough to make me consider switching jobs), the exterior is just as wowing. The truck’s glass top is balanced with a seamless grille at the base that runs from end to end, helping with cooling. The truck uses hydrogen fuel technology that burns to release water-vapor, making the truck have zero emissions, while its bullet-shaped streamlined design helps improve fuel economy… and the cherry on the cake is definitely those shape-shifting rims on the wheels that help further air-intake!Designer: HyundaiThe Argo watch manages to capture the childlike joy of looking at a starry sky as well as use the sky and stars as a reference…KABUTO’s feature list almost sounds like it’s being read out by Q from the James Bond novels. Silent wheels, fingerprint lock, laptop-charging capabilities, detachable backpack, designed…Aryton Senna’s 1986 Lotus 98T is probably one of the most iconic Formula One cars. It’s the last in a long line of cars in the beautiful John…While most vehicles operate on 2 or more wheels, the Infinitlar concept vehicle IS a wheel! The autonomous, hydrogen powered vehicle is an extraordinary vision of…A Mobius strip is a surface with “one continuous side formed by joining the ends of a rectangular strip after twisting one end through 180°” (Apple…Holy bajeesus did you know that there’s legislation that will be in place by 2015 in the European Union that says 95% of any vehicle produced…We’re an online magazine dedicated to covering the best in international product design. We have a passion for the new, innovative, unique and undiscovered. With our eyes firmly focused on the future.