Get a head start on holiday shopping with these deals and discounts.Retailers love to throw the term Black Friday around a lot. A whole lot. From Black Friday marketing emails hitting your inbox mid-January to the "Black Friday in July" sales that hover around Amazon Prime Day, it's easy to think that Black Friday lasts all year long. Those emails and sales are deceptive, but they do get one thing right: Black Friday isn't just one day anymore.In fact, it's not even two days. Some stores start selling items at Black Friday prices the first week of November, and others kick off their Black Friday sales the Monday before Thanksgiving. Arbitrary holidays like Cyber Monday (the Monday after Thanksgiving), Green Monday, and Free Shipping Day keep the whole deal-fest going for weeks.So yes, Black Friday deals are already taking over, but not all of them are good. We've gathered up a list of early deals that are actually worth your time (and money). The items listed below are at or very close to advertised Black Friday prices, so if any are on your holiday shopping list, you might be able to get a head start.Our list is small now but will grow in time. We'll keep it updated for a couple of weeks until we start covering Black Friday sales as they go live.Updated November 25: We added a few new deals on an iPad, Google Shopping sale, a reversible comforter, and more. We removed expired deals on the Roku Premiere, Ring Security System, and a Snickers bar.When you buy something using the links in our stories, we may earn a small affiliate commission. Here's how it works. You can also support our reporting and reviewing by purchasing a 1-year print + digital WIRED subscription for $5 (Discounted).Apple AirPods ProEcho Show 8 for $100 ($30 off): This is a preorder of Amazon's newest Echo Show device. It ships on November 21. If you order it and the price changes between now and when your order ships, Amazon will charge you the lower price.Apple AirPods Pro for $235 ($14 off): This deal has been going in and out of stock, so if it isn't available when you check, circle back to see if it's on sale again. These are Apple's newest AirPods, and overall, we really like them. We like them a lot.Tile Sticker 4-Pack + Free Echo Dot for $60 ($35 off): Tile Stickers are awesome for the absentminded. Use them in conjunction with the smartphone app or Alexa to track down lost keys, wallets, phones, and more.Ring Video Doorbell Pro for $149 ($100 off): This video doorbell lets you see who is at the door. It works in conjunction with smart displays like the aforementioned Echo Show, too. Ring offers convenience but has had its share of problems, partially due to a partnership with law enforcement. Read more about the Amazon-owned company here.Target's TV Sale: Prices and savings vary in this sale, but most of the prices are either a match of Target's Black Friday ad prices, or they come close. Brands like TCL and Samsung are included. A Target REDcard will get you another 5 percent off.Bose Home Speaker 300 for $199 ($60 off): This home speaker has Alexa built-in and has never sold for less. We included this speaker's big brother in our roundup of the best smart speakers, and the 300 performs nearly as well.UE Boom 2 for $70 ($30 off): This speaker used to sell for more than $150 and was our favorite Bluetooth speaker for several years. The Boom 3 now leads our picks, but this one is still great. It's loud, water-resistant, and quite portable. The Boom 2 regularly sells for closer to $100. This discount is still a great one, beating previous deals we've shared by $10.Amazon Devices for as low as $30: Amazon's pre-Black Friday offers start with slashed prices on its own gear. Some of these items will drop in price again next week, but the Fire Tablet deals and Kindle Paperwhite are down to the lowest we'll see.Google Shopping Black Friday Deals: Google Shopping has some great deals available on everything from Apple laptops to KitchenAid stand mixers. Each discount requires that you use a unique promo code, which you'll find next to the product listing, but the selection is vast.Apple iPad 2019 Model for $250 ($79 off): This is the best deal yet on the latest iPad model. Check out our guide to iPads for more info.Salt, Fat, Acid, HeatSalt, Fat, Acid, Heat, by Samin Nosrat for $14 ($16 off): The cooking show by the same name took Netflix by storm, and this is the lowest price ever for its namesake's cookbook. The deal is on the hardcover version, too, making for a great gift.MyQ Smart Garage Door Opener for $30 ($20 off): This lets you open and close your garage door remotely using a smartphone app. It's nearly universal, and setup is simple.SimpliSafe Home Security System for 50 percent off: This offer will be applied automatically during checkout. SimpliSafe's systems can automatically alert the authorities in the event of an emergency.Instant Pot Accu Slim Sous Vide Immersion Circulator for $55 ($25 off): Sous vide cookers are all the rage, and this one is made by one of the best brands in kitchenware. You can even use it to cook your Thanksgiving turkey.iRobot Roomba S9+ Robot Vacuum + Braava jet m6 Robot Mop Bundle
for $1,620 ($280 off): WIRED reviewer Adrienne So loves robot vacuums, and this bundle includes one of her favorites. Check out more of the best robot vacuums if these early Black Friday deals don't strike your fancy.The Big One Down Alternative Reversible Comforter for $17 ($33 off): Use promo code TURKEY15 to get this price. I, Louryn, love these blankets. They keep me warm in Midwest snowstorms without making me feel stifled.KitchenAid Stand Mixers and Accessories for up to 50 percent off: It wouldn't be Black Friday without deals on KitchenAid mixers. There are discounts on things like mixing bowls and utensils, too.Kano Harry Potter Coding KitL.O.L. Surprise Amazing Surprise for $98 ($22 off): Yes, this toy is an overpriced, plastic-ridden nightmare. It's also at the top of many, many wish lists this year. If you're going to buy it either way, you may as well do it while it's on sale, especially since any discounts we see on Black Friday will probably sell out quickly.Up to 50 Percent off Toys at Target: This Target deal has a huge selection to choose from, and many of the toys are priced lower than we've seen advertised so far in various Black Friday circulars. Hatchimals, Little Tikes, Barbie, Disney, and other popular brands are featured.Kano Harry Potter Coding Kit for $49 ($51 off): This Black Friday price match gets your little one a coding toy that'll eventually result in a wand. There are more than 70 creative challenges. The kit is appropriate for ages 6 and up, and we featured a separate Kano Kit in our Best STEM Toys for Kids guide.The Outer Worlds on Xbox One for $40 ($20 off): This recently-released game is one of my new favorites, and anyone that likes RPGs will probably enjoy it as well (unless they don't love side quests.) The deal is only valid on the digital version for Xbox One.Xbox One S 1TB All-Digital Edition Console for $150 ($100 off): There are pros and cons of an all-digital gaming console, but this is still a nice way to save if you don't mind the lack of physical discs. Aside from a controller, this also includes one month of Xbox Live Gold and download codes for Minecraft, Sea of Thieves, and Fortnite Battle Royale.Rad Power RadRunnerRad Power RadRunner Electric Bike for $1,199 ($100 off): This is our favorite electric bike. It’s affordable, easy to assemble, and fun to ride, though you should note that it’s pretty heavy. Read more in our in-depth review.Walmart Early Black Friday Deals: Walmart released its Black Friday ad, and several of the deals are up for grabs now. There are nearly 2,000 items to choose from, like laptops, toys, and countertop appliances.One-Year Sam's Club Membership for up to 60 percent off: This isn't technically a Black Friday deal. However, the Sam's Club Black Friday sale is usually one of the most popular, and you'll need a membership to shop it. This deal saves you money and gets you some freebies, so if you're planning on joining, now is a good time.23andMe Health + Ancestry DNA Test for $99 ($100 off): Unlike similar tests, 23andMe doesn't try to upsell extra services. This deal has been around for a couple of weeks, but it's still a match of the best price we've seen. Keep in mind that there are always some risks to sending in your DNA.If you're in the mood to check out each store's deals for yourself, we've assembled some links below.Be sure to check out our many gift guides and buying guides for more info on our favorite stuff this holiday.WIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.More From WIREDContact© 2019 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 5/25/18) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 5/25/18) and Your California Privacy Rights. Wired may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices