When it comes to bars, New York City has seemingly endless options, from classic glamorous cocktail bars and chic speakeasies to dive bars and trendy nightclubs.But there are only some bars you'd take someone you want to truly impress. Business Insider surveyed New York City-based real-estate agents and executives to find out the one bar they would take a client to impress them or close a deal. Here, in alphabetical order, is what they told us.Location: 28 W. 53rd St. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: $26 to $150Deborah Ribner, an agent at Warburg Realty, said the one bar she'd take a client was the cocktail bar at Manhattan's Baccarat Hotel."It's gorgeous, centrally located, has a great buzz and crowd but yet intimate enough where you can talk and actually hear the person," Ribner told Business Insider. "You can sit at the bar or get a little table to have drinks."Michael Franco, a Compass broker with 20 years of experience, said Baccarat would be his first choice in uptown Manhattan."The decor and setting are luxurious and beautiful," Franco said. "The drink menu is unique, and the service is outstanding."Location: 324 W. 46th St. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: UnknownSteven Gottlieb, an agent at Warburg Realty, said his bar of choice was Bar Centrale, which sits inside a converted brownstone apartment in midtown Manhattan."There's nothing like a nightcap at Bar Centrale," Gottlieb said. "It's chic and unmarked, and never fails to impress. Perfect for an after-theater drink."Location: 35 E. 76th St. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: $21 to $43Catherine Silver Smith, an agent at Warburg Realty, said her No. 1 bar to take clients was Bemelmans Bar at the Carlyle Hotel.It's a "quintessential NYC establishment with great live music," Smith told Business Insider.Sheila Trichter, a Warburg broker with 35 years of experience, also said Bemelmans was "hands down" her favorite place to go."The murals are divine, the drinks are generous, and the atmosphere cannot be beat," she said.Location: 848 Washington St. (Manhattan)Cocktail prices: ~ $20More than one agent named the Standard Hotel's Boom Boom Room, also known as the Top of the Standard, as a top place to take clients.Martin Eiden, a Compass broker with 20 years of experience, said it was "sort of a classic now ... cool views and great bar food."Claire Groome, a broker at Warburg with 17 years in the industry, agreed."Have you seen the views?" she said. "Perfect for cocktails and then to go out afterwards. I love NYC; there are many great places to take clients. It really depends on the clients, honestly. Uptown or downtown? West side or east side? Just so much fun."Location: 15 Vanderbilt Ave. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: $18 to $25Craig Levine, the vice president of business development at Quest Builders Group, named the Campbell bar at Grand Central Terminal, formerly known as the Campbell Apartment, as his top choice."Cool historical location and ideal being near Grand Central," Levine said.Location: 55 Wall St. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: UnknownDomingo Perez Jr., an agent at Warburg Realty, said Cipriani on Wall Street was "impressive in scope and service."Location: 326 Spring St. (Manhattan)Cocktail prices: ~ $12Christopher Totaro, a Warburg agent with 10 years of experience, said he'd go for the Ear Inn in west SoHo."It's the oldest bar in New York," Totaro said. "When a client is considering moving to Tribeca, visiting a local haunt where you are known is what truly impresses people."Location: 180 Ludlow St. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: UnknownMichael Bello, an agent at Real New York, said he didn't drink but liked the ambiance at the Ludlow Hotel bar."It's a gem that not too many people seem to know about," Bello said. "The lounge and bar are upscale and lively but also quiet enough to have a conversation and/or get some work done. A little dark and mysterious. But there's also an enclosed sunroom in the back. And you never know who you'll run into there."Location: 10 W. 28th St. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: $16 to $175Adam Henick, the cofounder of Current Real Estate Advisors, said his top bar to take clients was NoMad Bar, which was named the second-best bar in the city in 2019.It has a "lively vibe with great drinks and food and attentive service," Henick said.Location: 1 E. 55th St. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: $21 to $90The Compass agent Julie Gans told Business Insider that Ralph Lauren's Polo Bar would impress a client."The Polo Bar is a beautiful, sophisticated bar in Midtown," Gans said. "It is luxurious, casual yet refined ... the food is great and the vibe is electric."Location: 48 W. 17th St. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: $17 to $18"It's a quiet speakeasy atmosphere where the staff are the professional mixologists who serve fantastic cocktails," Alan Levy, a Warburg agent with 12 years of experience, said of Raines Law Room.Location: 2 Lexington Ave. (Manhattan)Cocktail price range: $21 to $75For the Warburg agent Rowena DasGupta, the best bar to impress a client is Rose Bar at the Gramercy Park Hotel."It's in a lovely part of town, just off Gramercy," DasGupta said. "It offers the right mix of an environment that is tasteful yet fun and where a discreet conversation can be had on any real-estate transactions without the 'walls having ears.'"Location: 111 N. 12th St. (Brooklyn)Cocktail prices: ~ $18The Warburg agent Zach Sutton said he'd suggest Westlight, the 22nd-story rooftop bar at the William Vale Hotel in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to impress a client."With incredible views of the city, an indoor-outdoor experience, and excellent cocktail selection, it's a great spot to take in and reflect on Manhattan from a distance," Sutton said.