In a bid to move away from the data-driven model favored by Facebook with monetized, targeted ads, Wikipedia cofounder Jimmy Wales is launching something of an anti-Facebook. Wales recently launched a new social network, WikiTribune Social — WT:Social, as it's also called, will instead be supported by donations from a group of users.Though the platform naturally has nowhere near as many users as Facebook, it told The Independent that it had managed to draw in over 200,000 members within days of its launch.While WT:Social will be similar to Facebook and Twitter, Wales says the aim isn't to reach millions of users or to achieve massive expansion. Ultimately, the new platform is centered around news, but its aim is to tackle the "clickbait nonsense" and "fake news" that the site says is so prevalent on other platforms."As social networks have grown, they've amplified the voices of bad actors across the globe," the landing page of the network states. "Fake news has influenced global events, and algorithms care only about 'engagement', and keeping people addicted to platforms without substance. WikiTribune wants to be different. We will never sell your data. Our platform survives on the generosity of individual donors to ensure privacy is protected and your social space is ad-free."








        Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
      
AP Photo

Wales told the Financial Times: "The business model of social network companies, pure advertising, is problematic."On WT:Social, anyone can edit content from other users and add comments or details to the information, which is arguably a more problematic and complex model than the one used to generate conversations on Twitter and Facebook.However, Wales told the Financial Times that he saw it as "a huge incentive for good behavior ... if you say something obnoxious, someone will just delete it."Wales also said that an "upvote" button would be added — that is, a recommendation button — to defend and promote quality stories.








        Facebook on a mobile phone.
      
Omar Havana/Getty Images

This same philosophy of "citizen journalist" contributors was one he defended on the predecessor to WT:Social, WikiTribune.The idea was to create a collaborative space for "citizen journalists" to tell users what was happening across the globe. Launched in 2017 through a crowdfunding campaign, the portal failed because it wasn't able to sustain its business model.Until now, WT:Social has had a waiting list for new users due to its servers' capacities. To promote the community, users are allowed to invite a friend who will have direct access and, for users who donate to the network, there's an option to add up to 200 users. The platform will eventually expand to include versions in languages other than English.In the end, WT:Social will be aimed at a select group of users, with a view toward protecting information."It won't be massively profitable," Wales told the Financial Times, "but it will be sustainable."
                                This post has been translated from Spanish.
                              