Kim Kardashian says she "empathizes" with Megan Markle and and Prince Harry following months of "ruthless" scrutiny by the UK media. The Kardashians have often been referred to as America's royal family, and Kim was questioned on the topic during an interview with Australia's "The Sunday Project" this weekend."I'm wondering whether if you feel some sympathy for what Harry and Megan are going through?" journalist Lisa Wilkinson asked after comparing the two famous families. 








        Kim Kardashian was asked whether she "felt sympathy" for Prince Harry and Meghan.
      
The Project/Facebook

Acknowledging every family's personal struggles are different whether famous or not, Kim began by saying: "I think everyone has their own journey."I think their journey is extremely personal with what [Harry's] mother experienced and how her life was so affected by the spotlight and by paparazzi. I don't think anyone can really understand what that's like except for them."









        The Sunday Project
      


But the 39-year-old businesswoman continued by saying as a mother now, she undersands how the royal pair may be feeling in having to navigate a constant media circus while raising a young family. "But I think as I'm older and as I have kids, and what I would want for them is just the safest place."I can definitely empathise with their need for having a secure, safe place and taking time for themselves and having privacy when they need it."
Looking forward to quality time with my favorites next week. What are you most grateful for this Thanksgiving? Follow @picsart and click on their link in bio to get this look. #picsart #picsartpartnerA post shared by  Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Nov 21, 2019 at 2:28pm PSTNov 21, 2019 at 2:28pm PST
 It's been a trying year for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex who have faced intense public scrutiny over their use of private jets, their refusal to spend Christmas at Sandrigham, and their decision to take legal action against two British tabloids. 








        Prince Harry and Meghan welcomed their son Archie in May.
      
Toby Melivlle/ Getty Images

Kim is hardly the first celebrity to show support for the royal couple, with a number of other influential personalities speaking out against their "public bullying."Ellen DeGeneres and Jameela Jamil defended Markle's lawsuit against the Mail on Twitter.DeGeneres wrote: "I'm proud to call Meghan and Harry friends, and I'm even more proud of them for finally saying enough is enough." When they received backlash for choosing to take a private aircraft to Elton John's residence in Nice, the singer spoke out on Instagram and said he paid for the "carbon neutral" jet and was "deeply distressed" by the malicious accusations.Elsewhere in Kim's interview, she revealed she has a "good relationship with Donald Trump," and thanked the White House for assisting her with the release of 34 prisoners. Read more:The backlash Meghan Markle received for deciding to miss Christmas with the Queen is just another example of the double standards she's up againstSamantha Grant just apologized to Meghan Markle and Prince Harry in the most dramatic wayKim Kardashian said she cried over memes of her 2013 Met Gala dressLike what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
