
					
						
						Please create an account to participate in the Slashdot moderation system
					
				
Nickname:


Password:


Nickname:


Password:


The Fine Print: The following comments are owned by whoever posted them.  We are not responsible for them in any way.
They are paying you. It isn't for free. It works great. I've been using it for about 60 hours now and already made $5.They are paying you. It isn't for free. It works great. I've been using it for about 60 hours now and already made $5.This is hilarious !and what have you revealed about yourself in that time?Is it possible that they (Facebook) might earn 10 times what they pay you when the sell that data?I always lie through the back teeth in surveys. My stock answers include Lesbian of BME origin who is 22 years old. Totally untrue but...and what have you revealed about yourself in that time?
Is it possible that they (Facebook) might earn 10 times what they pay you when the sell that data?I always lie through the back teeth in surveys. My stock answers include Lesbian of BME origin who is 22 years old. Totally untrue but...Is there any legalese that says these surveys have to be completed honestly? The only reason I ever go on facebook any more is to lie about the number of boats I own. whoops, just bought another one!
Is there anything to prevent someone using a markov-chain-driven bot to fill these surveys with plausible-sounding gibberish? we should get Janelle Shane on this asap.I would take surveys on my PC, but I will never, ever install a Facebook app on my phone after the shenanigans of their apps in the past. (I didn't have their apps on my phone either, so that was stuff that happened to other people. And I like it that way.)Don't they use those surveys to physiologically profile you , so they can target and manipulate you commercially and politically?Don't they use those surveys to physiologically profile you , so they can target and manipulate you commercially and politically?*PsychologicallyThat woulf be impressive if they could physiologically profile you though....I think they can. I uploaded a naked picture using the app. They gave me a $1.I am signing up just for the pure irony of collecting enough money by feeding personal data to the Data King, that I'll be able to purchase a copy of the game Cyberpunk 2077 with the proceeds.My dad used to do surveys online a lot and he gave it up after getting halfway through the surveys only to be told that they "had enough information" and he didn't qualify.  Sounds like a total bait-and-switch to me.  So, is Facebook going to pull the same weasel bullsh*t? The company also vows not to sell data to third parties or publicly share your activity without permission.If you believe that, I have a nice piece of real estste on Mars to sell.Paying people to fill out surveys creates a distorted view, people who will actually fill out surveys make up a small percentage of the population and those who need to make the tiny amounts of money offered by doing so an even smaller one. The results will never reflect a wide range of people.There may be more comments in this discussion. Without JavaScript enabled, you might want to turn on Classic Discussion System in your preferences instead.The RIPE NCC Has Run Out of IPv4 AddressesZorin OS 15 Lite Linux Distro Can Rejuvenate Your Aging Windows PC... though his invention worked superbly -- his theory was a crock of sewage
from beginning to end.
		-- Vernor Vinge, "The Peace War"