
					
						
						Follow Slashdot blog updates by subscribing to our blog RSS feed

Nickname:


Password:


Nickname:


Password:


The Fine Print: The following comments are owned by whoever posted them.  We are not responsible for them in any way.
A BeanStalk (AKA space elevator.)You don't need a space elevator. You don't literally "move" the heavy industry into space. You stop building it here, and start building it there. There are real problems to be solved, but don't pretend we can't solve them. Those of us who want to are simply being stymied by already rich fucks who want to get richer, and don't care if the world burns. And as long as we have to pay for their externalities, we are subsidizing their destructive behavior.Waiting around for a space elevator will cost more than i The idea would be to not move raw materials into space but to harvest them from asteroids..  I think it's a bit pie in the sky for what we need right now but long term it is probably something we should be shooting for.I can answer this one....You need two things to move something in space, energy and reaction mass.  The sun provides energy, and the asteroid provides reaction mass.You send a spacecraft to the asteroid and convert it into a massive ion engine to move it into a convenient orbit.  Circularizing the orbit takes for-fucking-ever because of low thrust, but if you are clever you can use the moon (reverse gravity assist) and/or aerobraking to scrub off a bunch of speed and make it faster.Once you have the first asteroid for resources then everything gets easier.  The first mover advantage is going to be massive.Also, not all space based industry requires downmass.  We invested 775 billion dollars on electrical power in 2019.  That's a lot of money, enough that space based solar power is a real contender as the space industry killer app.How does this work?  WE DON'T SEND MATERIALS FROM EARTH UP THERE.  WE GATHER ASTEROIDS AND COMETS THAT ARE ALREADY UP THERE.Robert Heinlein used to write, "It's raining soup!  Grab a bucket!". Once orbital and asteroid mining is established, then we won't need fuel to send raw materials UP.We would still need to bring down the materials and/or finished products, which is a problem that is nearly as hard as sending stuff up. Witness, for example, the immense engineering challenges that SpaceX and Boeing face, just to bring down a tiny little capsule.We would still need to bring down the materials and/or finished products, which is a problem that is nearly as hard as sending stuff up.Hard, how? Sure, it could be a difficult engineering problem but it's far easier in terms of energy.Energy is not really a concern, either way. The problems are all in engineering. The energy cost for sending up a rocket is only a small percentage of total cost.you'd be deorbiting big chunks of metals and minerals, splashing or smashing them down where they can be collected and further processed.Why ? We don't have shortage of those things on Earth, and it wouldn't actually avoid heavy dirty industry down here.Also, I think you're a bit too optimistic about how much of a heavy rock would survive the descent through the atmosphere and landing on Earth.I remember the story of the guy who bought the mineral rights to Meteor Crater, but after some time of fruitless digging around, realized that all the minerals had disappeared in a fine cloud of dust.Well, mostly because Bezos has yet to actually put anything into orbit, at all, ever.  Blue Origin has been stuck at 1950s sub-orbital flights for their entire existence, and basically produce press quotes and big plans.Get into orbit, and then you can start talking about things to do while in orbit, Bezos.Yeah, we just mine asteroids! Derp. Space Nutters.Those who spoke of “energy scarcity” and of “conserving energy” simply did not understand the situation. The sky was “raining soup”; what was needed was a bucket in which to carry it.”
Note the difference in tense between his and yours.  He was describing a past situation, not making a future projection. 
No, we *may* not need to send matI must admit, I had a similar reaction when I read all this too.However, re-entry could be made simpler - but it costs fuel. At the moment, the need for heat shields is predominantly because you're flying around the world at colossal speed before you attempt descent. If you instead, come to a (near) stop, with respect to the ground below, then all you need to do is stop trying to stay up, and you'll fall vertically to earth (give or take). You'll still get to terminal velocity, and your aerodynamics will ne Well, he's a fucking idiot. Shit from space, that rains down, burns up in the atmosphere. The only way you can get stuff from space, back to the earth, undamaged is to use rocket ships.That's to send mass up the gravity well. Sending mass down can be done with insulated gliders. This is exactly what Space Shuttle was in its unpowered descent mode.Sending mass down can be done with insulated gliders.Keeping in mind they can only be used once, how much do you estimate they cost to manufacture from Moon dust ? If we compare space shuttle, it could only land about 15 tons of cargo, so how much landing cost/kg would we be talking about ?We don't have to rebuild Space Shuttle out of lunar/asteroidal materials, just insulated descent glider vehicles. This is a much simpler problem.Yes, I agree they can be simpler than a space shuttle. But still, it sounds like an expensive business for a relatively small amount of cargo. And when you have to create them from raw materials on the Moon, I'm sure they'll cost more than the space shuttle did."you'll still have to send a ship up to pick up the manufactured products. You can't parachute them down."What? Who told you that? Of course you can. You use a heat shield and a parachute. That is literally the earliest way we landed spacecraft. You think something happened to physics between then and now?That is literally the earliest way we landed spacecraft.Here's a quote from Elon Musk about parachutes:"The Crew Dragon parachutes are way more difficult than they may seem. The Apollo program found them to be so hard that it became a notable morale problem!"The only way you can get stuff from space, back to the earth, undamaged is to use rocket ships.   How many rockets do you figure it would take to handle the cargo of one mega container ship?I've heard of a guy who wants to sell rocket ships.  Coincidence?Reentry is actually pretty cheap, all you need is a heat shield and a parachute.  And if you're moving heavy industry to space you're probably using space-based resources to do it, so you don't need to ship much except people up from Earth.  At least until you're doing it regularly if you're dumping a sizable percentage of the total durable goods demand of Earth through the atmosphere, the heating and ionization from reentry might present some real problems.Gravity drives would be great, but we have no reas Reentry is actually pretty cheap, all you need is a heat shield and a parachute.For small objects, yes, but building a suitable parachute system gets exponentially more complicated as payload mass increases.So use multiple small payloads. You don't have to send it as one big wad. Start by sending down refined metals. Work your way up to sending finished products. Don't make it needlessly complicated. Eventually we may have a space elevator so we can send down anything we want, but we can accomplish a great deal without one. Perfect is the enemy of good.So you're planning to launch a landing system from Earth to meet up with a chunk of metal in orbit, match orbital speeds, build them together, and then send the whole thing down again ? For a few tons of refined metals ?Reentry using space made materials is not cheap if your ablative material is traditionally made from carbon structures.Reentry is actually pretty cheap, all you need is a heat shield and a parachute. Repeat after me:  Movies are not a good source to learn about how shit actually works in space. Heat shield and a parachute eh?  That's all?  No engines for de-orbit burn?  You do realize the heavy industry factories are going to be moving along at a good speed to stay in orbit, yes?  To get out of that orbit you'll have to burn fuel and accelerate in the opposite direction.   You're gonna have to burn a lot of fucking fuel to slow down enough to safely hit the atmosphere...You do realize the heavy industry factories are going to be moving along at a good speed to stay in orbit, yes?No, not necessarily; aparently you don't understand orbital mechanics.Sure, Bozos, I'm 100% behind your plan for heavy industry. All we need now is cheap (as in pennies on the mega-dollar), ubiquitos space launch and space transport capability. No problem, right? It's just another R&D cycle, right? RIGHT???Also another little problem here: Space launches create a lot of pollution. That would need to go down dramatically to make this idea beneficial at all.Space launches create a lot of pollution.Do they, now.The real danger isn't to Earth but the many ecosystems on Earth.  You cannot save those retroactively, so waiting until you develop super cheap spaceflight isn't going to be an option.  The better idea is to proliferate uranium breeder SMRs across the US and it's allies and invest heavily in the development of LFTR to expand globally (since it cannot be used to make nuclear weapons).  This would provide a plentiful amount of energy to our planet, wipe out the fossil fuel industry and enable us to use the excess power to actually undo the damage we're doing.Rockets are neat but they won't save this planet.First, we only need a couple of dozen rockets and the right automation tech... and a hell of a lot of handwaving.I've been on a school trip to a steel factory, and I'm pretty sure it won't fit in a dozen rockets, even if we conveniently forget about all the stuff that the steel factory needs to operate on a daily basis.We already have this? Where? I didn't know we already has asteroid mining facilities and space factories!!!Then stop buying products made in China/India/Southeast Asia/Philippines until they do change.Just because they won't doesn't mean we shouldn't and it doesn't mean we are helpless to their whims.Shut up or put up.All those nations you're blaming have a tiny fraction of the per capita carbon output of the USA.Solar and wind are both cheaper than nuclear, and we live in a capitalism. It makes less than no sense to promote nuclear.What's needed to wipe out the fossil fuel industry is carbon tax, without trading. Cap and tax, not cap and trade. That's literally all it would take, which is why big oil lobbies so hard against it. If the true costs were accounted for, they would go away rapidly."Rockets are neat but they won't save this planet."Use them to launch solar power satellites. That 100% solves the old canard What's needed to wipe out the fossil fuel industry is carbon tax, without trading. Cap and tax, not cap and trade. That's literally all it would take, which is why big oil lobbies so hard against it. If the true costs were accounted for, they would go away rapidly.I agree but this would be unable to generate the amount of energy needed to actually remove CO2 from the atmosphere to undo the damage we've done.  Also, it doesn't work for densely populated nations.  I'm all for using renewable energy but SMRs have the potential to be much cheaper.  When LFTR is fully developed, it will be a much cheaper way to deploy energy around the globe.The real danger isn't to Earth but the many ecosystems on Earth.Thank you, Astute One, but you can relax; not too many are worried about the "health" of the geology, certainly not for its own sake.what about the fuel needed to get that cargo up there?Not much cargo needs to go up.  We'll collect asteroids and comets in space, and smelt them down (using solar power, because in space, there's NO LIMIT to solar power), manufacture stuff up there, and send it down in lifting body landing craft.How much will it cost to hire a lifting body craft to land all the space-manufactured sheetrock for your average house? If it's more than a few hundred bucks, it's not going to be competitive with current earthbound distribution systems.With this few hundred bucks budget, you're going to have to either launch a reusable landing craft, or manufacture a new disposable one in space.You don't use vehicles to bring stuff down.  Heat shields and parachutes.  Maybe some very limited propulsion for steering and a super gentle landing.And then, how are you gonna get a even single shipping container from Mach 25 orbital velocity to a soft landing in a designated area ?(*) Standard container can be loaded to 20 tons if you want to put it on a regular truck, more if you put it on a cargo ship. Compare with Dragon Capsule which has a measly 3.5 ton capacity."We'll collect asteroids and comets in space"
  This post is currently marked +4, Informative.As somebody nearby said, you mine the moon or asteroids for raw materials. However, a bigger question is how do you get the "heavy industry" goods back down? If something goes wrong, it's raining dump-trucks.Same can be said about cargo planes.Same can be said about cargo planes.Yeah? That how we ship dump trucks on Earth?  We load them into planes?  Funny, I thought we shipped them on.. well.. ships.

How much cargo do you think planes really carry? As opposed to ships I mean.. You know, giant container ships that leave China on a daily, if not hourly, basis.At least we now know Dr Evil's obsession with laserbeams.I've thought for 40 years that the right way to do it would be to move most heavy industry into space, or to the Moon.There was an early '70s movie called "Silent Running" with Bruce Dern.   In that movie, industry was on Earth, and the last remnants of the forests were in bio-domes on space freighters.  I thought, then, that this was exactly backwards.I'm PROUD that Amazon jacked up the price of my Amazon Prime membership if this and Blue Origin are what he's spending the money on.  Go, Jeff!After 19 years of regular billion dollar cash gifts from Bezos, Blue Origin has... a suborbital rocket that isn't ready to fly anyone yet. And a promising but untested BE-4 engine. I'm not impressed.Haha. +1. That dummy thinks Amazon Prime is going to fund his space fantasies. Meanwhile Bezos just uses it all to buy expensive houses and women everywhere.I think the energy and environmental cost of launching all the needed materials and machines and people into orbit is going to outweigh the energy and environmental cost of doing it on Earth.His plan is to do it with materials from the moon and the asteroids.-jcrhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/... [wikipedia.org]His plan is to do it with materials from the moon and the asteroids.Show me a place on the Moon where we can find Argon, or even Nitrogen.For nitrogen, you go to Titan and harvest ammonia.   Slightly less than lunar gravity to deal with.-jcrThat's nice, but not very helpful when you want to build a factory on the Moon.Sure. Just go to Titan and harvest ammonia and bring it back. Send two trucks just in case the first one breaks down.What do you want argon for anyway?There are many uses for argon in industry. Spend 15 minutes on Google to find out.The Moon rocks that the Apollo project have brought back have 8 elements that make up 99.9% of their mass: Si, Al, Ca, Fe, Mg, Ti, Na and O. The other 90 elements divide up the remaining 0.1%, and a lot of these missing elements are cheap and abundant on Earth and widely used in all kinds of industry.All Jeff Bezos has really done here is confirm my suspicion that his long-term plan for 99.9% of humanity is to leave it behind, and then kill it once all the billionaires are safely in space. There's no way you're going to *reduce* pollution by sending all the shit you need to do this into orbit. The rich are going to strip mine this planet, and if it's not uninhabitable when they're done, they'll just exterminate us to prevent any hope of retaliation.I should point out that this *does* leave room for another possibility: all the able-bodied poors will be shipped to Mars to work in hell-factories that now don't directly pollute the billionaires' new Eden. If they follow this model, the only place that has to be dirty on Earth is the launchpad. They can wait to exterminate the slaves until automation is good enough to replace them. And it'll be so easy to do! Just turn off the air. No riot police needed.Regardless of how they plan to do it, never forget t I'd even say he's onto something... but it's akin to saying a Mr Fusion would solve many of our issues. Not wrong but also, at the current state of technology, completely useless.We need faster propulsion if we want to start mining asteroids... which seems to be a necessity unless we manage to build a space elevator and then we'll have to pose the question of what the hell do we do with the waste we produce up there.... have even more garbage orbiting? Shoot it towards outer space? And how long can we ship I would think so.The cost of making a factory on earth that works as a closed system, with only raw materials going in, and clean finished products coming out, must be orders of magnitude cheaper than trying to do the same thing on the Moon.You don't need to do the same thing on the moon though. Environmental impact studies wont be as hard. The solar panels wont kill any birds, and the waste you dump out the back isn't going to turn any frogs gay.
Still not feasible to do yet though. For the future, why not? Interesting challenge to get it all to work and I'm sure we would learn a great deal from trying.the waste you dump out the back isn't going to turn any frogs gay.Not the frogs, no, but dump enough waste on the Moon, and it will interfere with your manufacturing process.Also, there may be water on the Moon, but it's going to be much more expensive than water on Earth, so it wouldn't make sense to throw your dirty waste water away. You would try everything you can to clean it up and recycle it. But we can do that on Earth as well.Going to the moon actually forces you to figure out how to build the closed system factory with no tempting cheats, though. It creates a market for truly closed systems which doesn't exist on Earth. I think a more realistic idea is that building things in space will teach us the techniques we'll then start applying on Earth.Going to the moon actually forces you to figure out how to build the closed system factory with no tempting cheats, though.It would be easier to keep a gun pointed at the engineer, and shoot him when he's tempted by a cheat.This idea is non sense.First, the cost of transporting something from space is greater than the impact of building here on Earth, so the net impact will be greater.Second... the only solution? That's absurd. There is multiple solutions, but the most obvious is not contaminate, renewable energy and ultraefficient recycling. Using this method, life has been active for trillions of years without exahust anything.I don't oppose to space industrialization. I think that humanity have more "room space" there than We have incoming energy (sun light, by a fusion rate that it will continue for billons of years), puting Earth in a open cycle that it's unexahustible on mankind ages.We do, indeed.And with a energy flux, concentration of elements is possible, so a perpetual recycling is too.Recycling is more than an energy problem.
We don't have atomic deconstructors and replicators to mix and match as we will.
Chemical reactions (generally) are not easily reversible.
There is a tendency toward reduced entropy, reactions tend to end in stable molecules.Biosphere has been doing it all this time, proving that it works and it's physically correct. I don't see why we can't do the same.Because no human recycling project is going to match the trillions of genes that have evolved to conduct those recycling reactions, which in most cases are the result of many many prior reactions happening before hand.
We will have Chemical reactions (generally) are not easily reversible. There is a tendency toward reduced entropy, reactions tend to end in stable molecules.True, but equally true when you build a factory on the Moon or on an asteroid, with the difference that there's even less of the desired molecules around that you can just pick up and use. A lot of elements are missing, and the remaining ones are locked down tightly in low grade oxides.Space Nutters never forgot Physics. They never learned it in the first place.If we actually did move all heavy industry off Earth, then and only then could we run it all on solar energy.Fortunately, there are other carbon-free energy sources available on EArth that we can run heavy industry on.Only if you forget about the asteroid belt. You did that. Don't do that.You only need to send up enough mass to bootstrap.Much of the point of moving industry off the planet is not having to send up the materials.Scifi has promoted it, yes, and you apparently forgot what it actually promoted.and where does all the fuel/energy for all these space launches come from? I get say having the heavy polluting industry out of our atmosphere but energy production isn't exactly that green currently. I guess this would at least put a very high price on pollution and incentivize coming up with less polluting options you you don't have to launch crap into space in order to work on it.Does anyone remember the story about how Apple has troubles building factories in the US because they simply don't have enough local suppliers to build their dependencies?The same thing happens for heavy industry in space.  Sure, you could build a system to forge steel from asteroid material.  But even if you automate all the bits of actually forging steel (and there are a lot), you are unlikely to be able to automate the bits of maintaining the equipment needed.  An modern manufacturing plant sits on a hug I'm pretty sure Jeff Bezos' has Amazon Prime. Free shipping!https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/... [wikipedia.org]You're thinking too small - you need to think like high as fuck Bezos who cites childhood dreams for his vision of space faring human civilizations.  Assuming his plan wouldn't end up shitting enough on the planet to make it irrecoverable by the time Project Save Earth comes online, which just keeps being postponed for some reason. "I'll save Earth tomorrow since I need the money today to do it tomorrow"If Earth has ever increasing population eventually all our food and activity would create CO2 issues as w I know. What a bunch of loosers.There may be more comments in this discussion. Without JavaScript enabled, you might want to turn on Classic Discussion System in your preferences instead.Mozilla's Annual Buyer's Guide Rates Amazon and Google Security Cameras 'Very Creepy'Price of Bitcoin Plummets Below 'Psychological' $7,000 Level After China Promises Crackdown... though his invention worked superbly -- his theory was a crock of sewage
from beginning to end.
		-- Vernor Vinge, "The Peace War"