An estimated 400 flight attendants have all purchased the exact same $24 jumpsuit from Amazon — many of them in multiple colors. The jumpsuit created by PRETTYGARDEN and sold on Amazon first emerged in a post on a private Facebook group for Delta flight attendants sometime in early July, and quickly spawned a spinoff group in August, "Sisterhood of the traveling jumpsuit," which has over 396 members at the time of writing, though the page is no longer visible. New York Magazine's The Strategist was the first to spot the recurring outfit.








        From left: Laura Hubach in Copenhagen, Denmark, Christine Tinelli Martinez in Las Vegas, Nevada, Heather Wallace-Wood in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, and Ana Fuentes in Monte Carlo.
      
Courtesy of Laura Hubach, Christine Tinelli Martinez, Heather Wallace-Wood, and Ana Fuentes

The original Facebook group, which is for Delta flight attendants only, is described by flight attendant Heather Wallace-Wood (second from right in the photo above) as "a sisterhood/sorority.""When we see something we like or enjoy and think perhaps others may like it as well, things tend to go viral," she told Insider. "We post cosmetics, toiletries, foods, places to eat or visit, just about everything we fall in love with and want to share."Of the same group, flight attendant Jacqueline Sandiford said: "We literally discuss almost everything, from the products we love and where to buy them, to health and nutrition tips, to relationship advice, to having a secret Santa gift exchange! About the only thing we don't discuss is work, funny enough!"She says that the group has almost 6,000 members, and that "it is quite honestly the most supportive group of women I've ever been a part of."








        From left: Michele Lyn in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, and Macy Hoffman in Cairo, Egypt.
      
Courtesy of Michele Lyn and Macy Hoffman

Sometime over the summer, someone — no one seems to be quite sure who — posted the jumpsuit along with its Amazon link, where, according to Sandiford, "it absolutely spread like wildfire."








        The jumpsuit by PRETTYGARDEN is said to be versatile.
      

Amazon


"It is so easy to pack and so comfortable, and looks great on so many different body types. You can dress it up or down, and wear it almost anywhere," Sandiford said of the jumpsuit."I like the jumpsuit's versatility," Wallace-Wood, who owns the jumpsuit in green and black, said. "I can lounge around in it, it's super comfy, or dress it up and go out to dinner. It packs well and I just hang it and the wrinkles seem to fall out!"Wallace-Wood said that as a flight attendant, she doesn't always know where she'll end up. "You can be all packed for Amsterdam and end up in Barcelona," she said, adding that packing multiple outfits is crucial: "A girl has to have choices!"However, she says that lugging around heavy bags is not ideal, which is where the jumpsuit comes in: "The jumpsuit is perfect as it's one piece and you can change it with the shoes and accessories you wear."Flight attendant Ana Fuentes agrees."The jumpsuit is an amazing piece for any wardrobe, versatile and travels well," she said. "As someone that lives out of a suitcase it is an essential piece to dress down or dress up with the right accessories.""I've been flying 29 years, and this is by far my favorite piece of layover wear! It looks good on any body type," said flight attendant Susan Karr.








        From left: Heather Wallace-Wood, Kandy Rivers, and Susan Clark Karr.
      
Courtesy of Heather Wallace-Wood, Kandy Rivers, and Susan Clark Karr

According to Wallace-Wood, female pilots and flight attendants from other airlines are also getting in on the trend. It's become so popular that a third Facebook group dedicated to the jumpsuit — and open to pilots and flight crew members from other airlines — has been created, but you have to prove you work in the industry to join."It's turning into another fun thing we do to connect with each other!" Wallace-Wood said, speaking of the jumpsuit's social media. "We are a silly bunch! It truly is a lifestyle, once thought of as a glamorous job and still by some it is, but we also pick up trash and clean up vomit... I wouldn't change it for anything!"Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
