
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
Black Friday came, and Black Friday went. Some of its deals are still lingering around, and others are being replaced by new Cyber Monday offers.Of course, Amazon doesn't have physical stores (yet?), so you're at the mercy of shipping. That being said, it offers fast, free shipping on orders over $25 and Amazon Prime members get their stuff even quicker. Plus, it means you can do all of your holiday shopping from the comfort of your own home. Here are the deals you should be considering right now including many you really don't want to miss.These 8 Cyber Monday deals are still available right nowAmazon just kicked off its Cyber Monday sale and as a part of the promotion, it is offering each iteration of its Fire tablets with steep discounts right now. For instance, the Fire 7 Tablet is available for $29.99 today. That's $20 off and a match for the lowest it has ever gone, a price we have only seen once before during the Prime-exclusive Amazon Prime Day sale. The same goes for the Fire HD 8, which is back down to its best price ever at $49.99. The largest Fire HD 10 is also on sale with a whopping $50 off. This is the lowest this tablet has gone and the last time it hit this price it was only for Amazon Prime members. Today's discount offers savings for anyone with $20 off both the 16GB and 32GB tablet in the color of your choice.There's no denying that Instant Pots are insanely popular these days. This Wi-Fi connected model also offers Alexa support, meaning you can control it from anywhere. It has a 6-quart capacity, which is perfect for families and individuals alike. There are eight cooking modes, and this $60 discount doesn't come around often. Not all Instant Pots can connect to your smartphone, but this one can. It has a 6-quart capacity, and is a pressure cooker, rice cooker, slow cooker, and much more all in one.This year, Microsoft released an All-Digital version of the Xbox One S, which means that it has no disc drive. Right now you can pick up the console, a controller, and download codes for Sea of Thieves, Minecraft, and Fortnite Battle Royale all for just $149. It even comes with one month of Xbox Live for free, so you can play verse all your friends. Whether this is your first Xbox or a replacement console, this bundle should be purchased immediately. This bundle includes the console, 1-Month of Xbox Live Gold, and download codes for Minecraft, Sea of Thieves and Fortnite Battle Royale.A few enticing offers on Ring products have just emerged with low prices the likes of which we rarely see. Take this Ring Video Doorbell Pro and Echo Show 5 bundle. The two devices are going for just $179 right now which is $160 less than what they'd usually sell for separately. The bundle is the same price as the discounted Video Doorbell Pro alone right now, so you're essentially getting the Echo Show 5 for free. Similarly, the Ring Video Doorbell 2 with Echo Show 5 has fallen in price, now at $139 for the pair — a savings of $150 and just $10 more than the doorbell alone. The Ring Video Doorbell Pro is one of the best options you can get, and the Echo Show 5 lets you view who's at your door from its 5.5-inch display. This bundle is $70 less than the doorbell itself normally sells for alone, so don't miss out.Amazon loves discounting extended trials of its services ahead of major shopping events, and this Music Unlimited deal is no exception. You can save $39 on four months of access right now by paying just $1 for it. You get access to an extensive library of songs that you can listen to across all your devices, and if you want to renew after it costs just $9.99 a month, or $7.99 for Prime members. Amazon Music Unlimited is a streaming service that's accessible on tons of devices and features millions of songs that you can play on-demand or download to your device. It's entirely ad-free, too. The deal is for new users of the service only.Apple only just recently unveiled the all-new 16-inch MacBook Pro, and right now it's already on sale. This has a larger display than previous generations, insane internal specs, and a new keyboard. Apple's latest top-of-the-line laptop was unveiled just this month, but it has already scored a nice discount at Amazon. You can take up to $210 off the 512GB model or the 1TB machine in silver right now, though these deals won't last long.When it comes to wireless earbuds, these Jabra options are one of our favorites that are available. At this price, there is very little on the market that would be considered a better value. They come in a variety of color options at this price, so you can pick the one that you like the most. These Bluetooth headphones let you take hands-free calls and listen to music wirelessly. They're water-resistant, feature customizable sound in the Jabra Sound+ app, and last for up to 15 hours with the included charging case. Clipping the $6 off coupon from the product page makes this smart accessory the lowest price we've ever seen. At just $30, you have very few excuses not to be buying one of these for your home. It works with a huge range of garage doors (nearly all that were installed after 1993), and it only takes a few minutes to install. With it, you get remote opening / closing support from your phone, alerts, and more. This garage door opener lets you control it using an app on your phone, or even with your voice and a compatible voice assistant like Amazon Alexa. Clip the on-page coupon for the full savings here.Grab three Echo Dot smart speakers on sale for $64.97 total when you use the code DOT3PACK at Amazon. Add any three Echo Dot speakers to your cart to see $40 taken off the price during checkout when you use the code. It doesn't have to be three of one color, either. Mix and match. Get a Plum Echo Dot for your bedroom and a Charcoal one to match your office's decor. Add three speakers to your cart of any color. Go all the same color or change it up. Use the code and see the discount during checkout. That's less than $22 per speaker. With coupon: DOT3PACKCyber Monday is sure to bring lots of deals to the AirPods lineup, but one of the best is here right now. Apple only just recently released the new AirPods Pro, and right now you can already save $14. While it may seem like a smaller discount, it's worth noting that Apple doesn't often discount its newest hardware this quickly. If you know someone who wants a pair, order now as there is a small shipping delay. It has only been a few days since the new AirPods Pro were released, and now there's already a way to save on the purchase! Amazon's offering $14 off the regular price, though there's a slight shipping delay you'll have to contend with.If you have been looking to upgrade your old PlayStation 4 to the Pro version, now's your time. It's currently $100 off for the console, and there are even a few bundles available around this price. Not sure if the PlayStation 4 Pro is worth your extra cash? Check out this full comparison and then be sure to grab one before the discount expires. We're sure to see a ton of video game deals, too. So stock up and get playing with one of the best discounts ever on Sony's best console ever. Play on 4K TVs with HDR support. Use Boost Mode for a boost in power.Kindle Unlimited gives you access to over a million titles, spanning from technical documents to cookbooks to fantasy novels to nonfiction. Even some audiobooks are included. Need a self-help book? Want to re-read the Harry Potter books for the seventeenth time? It's all there, and it's all free with your membership. You don't need a Kindle or Fire tablet to read, either. Amazon makes it easy to read thanks to its free Kindle reading apps for iOS, Android, PC, and Mac. Amazon is letting new subscribers of Kindle Unlimited try the service out completely free for three months! You'll gain access to over 1 million titles to read whenever you want, wherever you want. You don't need a Kindle to start reading, either. The Pixel 4 is Google's latest offering which builds upon the features that people grew to love in the Pixel 3. This time around, Google added a second camera, a few new camera functions like Astrophotograhy, improved low-light performance, and even ditched the notch on both models. This is the biggest discount we've seen on the unlocked variant, so be sure to grab one now. Black Friday is bringing huge discounts to all the Pixel devices, including the new Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL. These recently-released phones are down to a new all-time low, so don't miss out.The Versa 2 is Fitbit's newest fitness tracking smartwatch, and this time it integrates in a few more things that the first-gen option did not. This year, Fitbit has built Amazon's Alexa right into the watch, giving you quick and easy access to the powerful voice assistant. This Cyber Monday deal slashes $50 off the price of the recently-released watch, so don't miss out. The Fitbit Versa 2 health & fitness smartwatch lets you track your sleep and workouts, listen to music, talk with Amazon Alexa, and keep an eye on all the incoming notifications from your smartphone in the meantime.This model has a 3-stage cleaning system for hard floors and carpet. The multi-surface brushes can grab even larger debris. Plus the cleaning head automatically adjusts its height. Smart enough to not get stuck and recharge when its 90-minute battery is low. This is the best price we've seen on it, so don't miss out. Has a 3-stage cleaning system for hard floors and carpet. The multi-surface brushes can grab even larger debris. Plus the cleaning head automatically adjusts its height. Smart enough to not get stuck and recharge when its 90-minute battery is low. We don't see discounts across ecobee's lineup of smart thermostats often, in fact one of the only times to save big is around larger shopping events. Right now, the ecobee3 lite, which is the 'entry-level' model, is down to just $139, which is $30 off. Some of the others are available for up to $50 off, but pricing for those is at $200. It's down by $30, bringing it back to the lowest price it's sold for. The ecobee models work with Alexa, and offer remote control from anywhere using the free mobile app. We know that buying refurbished can be a bit of a gamble, but when you do it on an Amazon product directly from Amazon, there's very little to worry about. This deal saves you $40 compared to the price of a new one, and Amazon certifies that these will look and perform like new. In fact, Amazon even offers a full one-year warranty on the purchase, just like if you were buying it new. This video doorbell offers 720p video feed, motion notifications, two-way communication, and more. This is $30 less than it would normally cost, and at this price it's cheaper than almost all of the competition. Amazon backs this refurbished product with a full one-year warranty.There are a ton of deals going on right now, and only a few are highlighted above. Here's a hundred more that can help you save big today. This deal can be used to extend a current subscription or start a new one. It works with Windows as well as macOS and other Apple products like the iPad. The subscription is valid for up to six people, but that card can be all yours.Amazon's one-day sale drops it down to $79 and an on-page coupon takes a further 5% off. It has 2000Pa suction and a 100-minute battery. It can also recharge its own battery, uses infrared sensors to evade opstacles, and comes with a 1-year warranty.Instant Pots are super popular these days because of their versatility and ease-of-use. If your kitchen is not yet equipped with one, today is your lucky day as the 3-quart Instant Pot DUO Plus has dropped to just $59.99 as a one-day sale.Use the following coupon at checkout to save over $15 on this USB-C hub featuring several USB 3.0 ports, an HDMI port, a slot for SD cards, and a USB-C PD port so you can keep your computer powered up while it's plugged in.Clip the on-page coupon and then enter the following promo code during checkout to get in on this deal. This power bank has great reviews, a huge capacity, and three charging modes to top off your devices quickly and safely.
It's about time your car had a dash cam. Luckily, you can save nearly 40% on this 1080p HD version from Vava when you clip the coupon on its product page at Amazon and use the following code at checkout.
Clip the on-page coupon and use the following code at checkout to score this deal. The adapter includes 100W Power Delivery USB-C pass-through, a 4K HDMI port, three USB-A ports, and an SD card reader.PDP's officially licensed Mario Remix Starter Kit for the Nintendo Switch comes with a red carrying case to protect your console, six games, and some smaller accessories, as well as Mario-themed Joy-Con grips and a USB-C cable.Did you get some new hardware yesterday? Maybe a game or two on Black Friday? The Xbox controller has Bluetooth so it can connect easily to Windows 10 PCs and tablets. Keep a spare around if you already have one. These Bluetooth earbuds feature 6mm drivers, a built-in microphone, and the ability to last for up to seven hours on a single charge. They're water-resistant too, and they've only ever been priced $1 lower than this in the past.
Comes with a Clean & Charge station and a carrying case. Has four synchronized shaving elements and can shave in one stroke even on a 3-day beard. Sonic tech helps get those hard to reach hairs. Adjust the shaver for sensitivity with a button push.This little dinosaur has over 35 sound-and-motion combinations, which come out when kids wave at him or feed him treats. You'll get a few accessories, too, including a bottle, broccoli, and a caveman cookie.
Control the plugs from anywhere using the free app or your smart home. Works with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple HomeKit. You can set schedules so your coffee maker wakes up when you do or randomize them with "Away Mode."We all have a bunch of devices to power up and most of our phones are Qi-enabled these days, so it makes total sense to have a wireless charger anywhere you might set your phone down. Using the below code, you can grab this one for only $7. These newly-released earbuds didn't drop for Black Friday or Cyber Monday, but they just fell by over $30 at Amazon in both black and silver colors. They feature ANC, 24 hours of battery, touch controls, and great sound quality. Seriously, the monitor was $1,500 at the beginning of November. Crazy drop in price. Specs include a 3440 x 1440 resolution, 120Hz refresh rate, and 2ms response time. Has a USB hub. The IPS panel uses Nano Color tech for amazing color accuracy.This 3D printer supports layer resolutions as fine as 20 microns. It has an all-metal extruder and heated print bed for any filament type including ABS and PLA. Also designed to not jam and has optimized airflow. This is some straight-on STEM learning. Not only does your kid put together a little PC, but he or she will also progress through a series of challenges and stories about electronics and wires. Even learn the basics of coding. The Sonos One SL speakers are down to $129 apiece today. If you buy two using this bundle, Amazon will give you a $10 gift card on top of that. That's $110 in savings for brand new speakers that have never been on sale before.If you have two computer monitors with either 100 x 100 or 75 x 75 VESA mounting on the back, use this arm to suspend them above your desktop. It extends and retracts and can rotate, too. This dash cam includes video recording in front of the car and inside it. It has a 310-degree angle. There's infrared night vision, 24-hour parking mode, motion sensors, and support for microSD cards up to 256GB.This 50th Anniversary edition of The Lord of the Rings includes volumes The Fellowship of the Ring, The Two Towers, and The Return of the King all in one massive (digital) collection. Pick from four different colors at this price. These headphones have a 36-hour battery life with active noise-cancelling on and fast charge. SmartSound responds to the environment and switches on automatically if it detects distracting noises.Package includes the sparking water maker, two 60L CO2 cylinders, three 1L reusable carbonating bottles, and two 40mL zero-calorie fruit drops (lime and raspberry). Makes flavored sparkling water with the push of a button. Find your own flavors.This Bluetooth Yamaha sound bar is now down to its lowest price ever. It's packed with dual subwoofers, DTS Virtual:X for virtual 3D surround sound, Bluetooth connectivity, along with 4K pass-through, HDMI, Optical, and AUX ports.These 1080p security cameras can be live streamed from your phone and record footage. They last for up to one year on a single charge, have night vision and motion detection. Weather resistant so they can go outside, too. Amazon Prime members can save up to 50% off select movie rentals in digital HD for Cyber Monday, including recent films like John Wick 3: Parabellum, X-Men: Dark Phoenix, and Booksmart.This is an all-new low price for one of Samsung's best portable drives with around $30 off its average price. It's fast with read-write speeds of up to 540 MB/s, has AES 256-bit hardware encryption, and comes with both USB-A and USB-C cables.You can grab two Echo Auto devices for the regular price of one with the below code. Connect to Alexa on your phone and hear her through your car's speakers. Designed to hear you over traffic, music, and the A/C.These tiny smart speakers plug right into an AC outlet in your home so you can speak with Alexa, stream music from services like Spotify, control compatible smart home devices using only your voice, and more. Use the below code to save on a 2-pack.This beats the Black Friday pricing by $3 on each one, but you have to buy two at the same time to get this lowered price. Today's price is the lowest we've ever seen for the Dot. The discount works on the Essential and Foam series and covers sizes from Twin to California King. The mattresses use multiple layers of foam. Get a 100 night trial with the mattress. Try it out and if you don't like it return it for free. You get a price discount plus an extra 6% off using the on-page coupon. Has a 100-minute battery and will self-recharge when the battery gets low. Has suction up to 1300 Pa. Add Eufy C1 smart scale and use code EUFYSCALEC1 to get it free.Wyze indoor cameras record video in 1080p HD and feature night vision, 2-way audio, Alexa support, and more. What's even better is that these cameras don't require a monthly subscription in order to get the most out of them. These wireless earbuds feature integrated microphones and come with a charging case that can be charged wirelessly. Today's deal scores you nearly $30 off the usual cost when you clip the on-page coupon at Amazon.The software comes with five free federal e-files and unlimited federal prep. You'll also get one state program download. Guides you on maximum deductions and reporting assistance. Quickly imports your W-2 and other forms. The Ultraviolet with Midnight Blue color is an Amazon Exclusive, and this sale is the lowest yet. These are water resistant and have five hours of playtime per earbud. You'll get an extra 10 hours with the case. Use the app to find lost buds.We like Edifier. The company makes some great and affordable audio. Grab a pair of bookshelf speakers for Bluetooth music streaming or some true wireless earbuds for your own private listening. Two models of the well-reviewed OontZ Angle 3 Bluetooth speaker are now on sale for Cyber Monday, including the 3rd-gen speaker and a newer model which is fully waterproof and at its best price to date.Three well-reviewed Shark vacuum cleaners are now on sale at Amazon for just one day only, including the popular ZS351 Rocket Corded Ultra-Light Vacuum that's now down to its best price ever. This is a scalable and flexible mesh networking system that can blanket your whole home in Wi-Fi, eliminating dead zones and making it simple to use. You can add more as you need them. These routers handle up to 200 connected devices.From LEGO Star Wars to LEGO Marvel sets and even some other building blocks toys like Lincoln Logs and Playmobil toys, this sale at Amazon has a good number of deals you shouldn't miss if a LEGO fan is on your shopping list this holiday season.This Cyber Monday sale has just about everything you need to make your home the smartest one on the block. From ceiling fans to plugs, photo frames, and more, you won't want to miss this.This Android tablet becomes an Alexa-enabled speaker when docked and features a 10.1-inch HD display, Qualcomm Snapdragon 429 processor, 2GB RAM and 16GB storage. It can even support microSD cards up to 256GB. Today's price is a new low! We saw some great Black Friday deals on the Sonos Beam, Sub, and more (which are still alive!), and now the smaller speakers are on sale as well. This is the best price we've seen on the Sonos One SL, which is a new offering from the company.This one-day sale has a variety of different accessories, including keyboards, RAM, headsets, Wi-Fi extenders, monitor mounts, and more. Be sure to check out all the great options now. There are a bunch of different toys and dolls included in this sale that you'll want to check out. With up to 50% off, prices are starting at $7 or less.Whether you need a new hard drive, monitor, power supply, or router for your internet, this sale has you covered. There are tons of great deals here from popular brands like Netgear, TP-Link, BenQ, and more so be sure to check it out. It's down to just $300, which is $150 lower than it normally sells for. You can use this with Alexa or via the free mobile app. It's great for cleaning pet hair and works well on both carpet and hardwood floors. This price drop brings it to a new all-time low, but it will only stick around for today. This version of the Instant Pot has a large capacity, multiple cooking functions, and more. If you don't have one already, change that today!The M10 has a 10.1-inch HD display, Qualcomm Snapdragon 429 processor, 2GB RAM and 16GB storage with support for microSD cards up to 256GB. The best part is when this Android tablet is docked, it becomes a screen for Alexa to use.Two 23andMe DNA testing kits are on sale at Amazon for Cyber Monday, including one which can tell you all about your ancestors as well about your close family members from across the world, and another which gives an in-depth look at your health.
Embark lets you discover your dog's true breed from over 250 possibilities with the most accurate breed breakdown on the market. It also screens for over 170 genetic diseases like glaucoma and takes just 2-4 weeks to see results. This one-day sale has several different styles of Crocs available in a range of colors. Pricing starts at just $10 for the kids options, and goes up to $20 for the lined ones.There's just one day only to save on this wide selection of bikes, scooters, and helmets at Amazon for riders of all ages.There are two different options available here, the Smart Lock and the Smart Lock Pro with Wi-Fi bridge. These are up to 63% off thanks to this one-day sale, so don't miss out.Yi home security cameras are now up to 40% off at Amazon for Cyber Monday. Many of these cameras allow you to view their live stream anywhere you go using an app on your phone. There's even a dash cam thrown in the mix for your vehicle.This is a savings of $110 on Ninja's popular 8-quart all-in-one cooker. It combines a pressure cooker, air fryer, and more all into one gadget.From Samsung to HP, ASUS, and Acer, this Chromebook sale at Amazon includes some popular models at great low prices. Many options are now $100 off or more while supplies last. Has a 3-stage cleaning system for hard floors and carpet. The multi-surface brushes can grab even larger debris. Plus the cleaning head automatically adjusts its height. Smart enough to not get stuck and recharge when its 90-minute battery is low.
Now $170 off, this 2018 Mac Mini can get you into the Apple ecosystem for less than most other options. It features 8GB RAM, a 3.0 GHz 6-core Intel Core i5 processor, and a 256GB SSD. Amazon's Echo Show 5 is the latest Echo device with a screen. Now Alexa not just tells you everything you want to know, but shows you too! You can even stream shows and movies from services like Prime Video, music from Spotify, and more.Catch up with Chip & Dale, Darkwing Duck, Baloo and more classic Disney characters in this digital six-game collection for Xbox One.
This Amazon-exclusive Funko Pop! is not only super-cool, featuring Han Solo at the helm of the iconic ship, but it is also down to its best-ever price right now. It measures 5.5 inches tall, 10.5 inches wide and 13.25 inches long. Keep your desk or nightstand looking neat and tidy with this 2-in-1 stand. It holds your phone with or without a case and has space for your Apple Watch cable to make it the perfect charging station. Use the coupon to save. Track your activity, customize the watch face, get notifications from your phone, use Garmin Pay, and more. The battery life lasts up to seven days and it's compatible with both iOS and Android.The charging station doubles as a dirt bin, and the i7+ drops off its own dirt. Your Roomba does all the work and texts you when the bag is full. It can learn multiple floor plans, and it can connect to your smart home.It's built for a family of four to six and can take the place of 10 kitchen appliances. There's a little microprocessor in there that monitors the pressure and temperature so you can always get it right. It's also UL-certified with safety features.The G602's 11 programmable buttons are rated for up to 20 million clicks and it uses Delta Zero sensor technology for up to 2,500 dpi. The mouse can last for 250 hours on one pair of batteries. It's never gone lower.The frame lets you share photos and videos from your phone or by email to the frame no matter where you are or where it is. Great gift for parents and grandparents so they can keep in touch. Manage the frame from iOS or Android with the free app. The Deebot is equipped with two side brushes and a main brush so it can sweep, lift, and vacuum an entire floor. Use other modes like Spot or Edge to clean specific areas. Lasts 110 minutes on one charge. Works with Alexa and Google Assistant. This is an SDXC card so you need to make sure your device can support it. The card is perfect for recording high-quality 4K video. Use it with a laptop, a Nintendo Switch, or any other device that needs a lot of storage. Has a 10 year warranty.The credit gets applied within a week of the purchase. So you can use it on a future video game for your new console. The deal applies to every color variation on the product page, and you can just Redeem it instead of using the code.These pair with both iOS and Android via Bluetooth. With iOS you get voice commands via Siri access. With Android you get automatic sync and Ambient Aware Mode. The buds have six hours of battery with an extra seven from the case. This is a 2.1-channel speaker system with a control pod that makes the volume easy to control. The speakers have 25W of power and a compact subwoofer that can give you some bass. It's super easy to setup and works with any headphone jack input. Kit comes with one smart bridge, one dimmer switch, one Pico 3-button dimming remote, and one Pico wall plate bracket. Turn your dumb lights into smart ones. Works with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple HomeKit for voice control.This is a pair of speakers that includes a bass-reflex system. They have 5.25 inch cellular reinforced woofers and one inch polyester main tweeters with 0.75 inch Sony Super Tweeters for immersive sound staging. They have 100W maximum input power.This is a headset that uses your 2.4GHz wireless network. It's built for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 4 Pro and also works with your PC. Has a detachable mic, LED lighting, and 30 hours of battery life. Add one of Eufy's EufyCamE wireless security cameras to your home for one of its best prices in history. You'll need to have either Eufy's HomeBase or HomeBase E already at home to use this camera. Works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. Use your phone to adjust the temperature and setup automatic scheduling. Saves you energy and money in the long run, too. It's smart enough to automatically adjust based on whether or not you're home.This slim wallet features RFID blocking and seven slots to hold your ID, credit cards, and cash. Every vehicle should have one of these battery chargers or jump starters handy in the trunk or glove box just in case. Thanks to Black Friday weekend, this one-day sale can save you up to 49% while supplies last. This Polar Express train set is easy to set up and comes with a remote that lets you control the train. It even features a working headlight, a whistle, and sound effects. Three AAA batteries and six C batteries are required.The 32GB model for $249 may have sold out, but now you can score this upgraded model with four times the storage capacity for less than $100 more. Don't wait 'til it's too late, as this one might sell out at any time too.Clip the on-page coupon at Amazon to save an extra $10 on this one-day Black Friday weekend deal! Eufy's Spaceview S features a large 5-inch 720p display so you can keep an eye on your baby at all times. It even allows you to pan the lens remotely.Has two batteries for hot swapping so it can go up to 60 minutes. Converts to handheld vacuum. Can go on max suction for 24 minutes for a deeper clean. Comes with 7 accessories and a two-year warranty.Now's your chance to save up to 25% on Leviton lighting controls before Amazon flips the switch on its Black Friday weekend deals and they disappear forever. The Rival 310 features a custom TrueMove 3 12,000 CPI, 350 IPS optical esports sensor with 1-to-1 tracking. It's ergonomically-designed for comfort and performance and it features RGB illumination allowing you to choose from over 16 million colors.This enhanced AncestryHealth Core test kit tells you quite a bit more than the standard Genetic Ethnicity Test kit from AncestryDNA, such as carrier status reports, wellness reports, how your DNA may influence certain health conditions, and more.Make sure you're prepared for your next DIY project with this one-day sale at Amazon featuring a bevy of well-reviewed tools, from impact tools to air sanders, a reciprocation saw, and more.AmazonBasics items are already affordably priced, but thanks to this one-day sale, you can save up to 30% extra on Kids' playroom furniture like small table and chair sets, playmats, storage organizers, and more.These neat notebooks can be constantly reused. Your notes get blasted into the Cloud and you can wipe them away with a microfiber cloth and start again. Comes with different planning pages and works with the included pen. Amazon renewed these Dyson V6 Motorhead Cord-Free Vacuums on sale today to ensure they're in Like-New condition. Keep this vacuum docked and it's always charged and ready to go.
Use the mini HDMI or USB-C ports to connect your mobile device, gaming console, laptop, or other device and add a bit more real estate wherever you are. Comes with a smart cover and screen protector. Has a slim profile so it's easy to travel with.This premium Bluetooth 5.0 wireless speaker features Marshall's signature sound and style at a new low price. You can even customize its sound to your liking via the free Marshall Bluetooth app. The WD Red are designed for NAS systems so you can create your own highly durable media server. It supports a super heavy workload up to 180 TB a year. Supports NAS systems at home or in the office and comes with 3-year warranty. Works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. Use your phone to adjust the temperature and setup automatic scheduling. Saves you energy and money in the long run, too. It's smart enough to automatically adjust based on whether or not you're home.The PowerCore has three USB outputs and a large enough capacity that you can not only charge three devices at once but provide enough power to get them all topped off. Also has two inputs for double the recharge speed.This deal includes a full year subscription to Mylio Create and two months of Adobe Creative Cloud's Photography Plan. The drive works for Mac and Windows and connects via USB 3.0 for super fast transfer times. For the home or the office. The thin bezel, curved screen, and 1440p resolution immerse you into the screen whether you're playing or working. Has great multi-tasking for handling several projects. Works as a console monitor, too. The headphones have 50mm high-density neudymium audio drivers. Constructed with a breathable microfiber mesh fabric and plush memory foam earpads for comfort over long sessions. Omnidirectional mic picks up your voice. Has flip-up to mute function.Today's deal is for a digital code that can be used to download the game onto your console. You'll receive the code quickly via email so you can begin playing today!These days, you need a microSD card that can efficiently handle the large file sizes of 4K recordings and high-res photos. This microSD card has Class 10, U3, and V30 performance and up to 100MB/s read speed so it's got you covered. The Breville Convection + Air Fry Smart Oven features 13 cooking functions to help you in the kitchen, from toasting to broiling, baking or roasting, warming, proofing, reheating, slow cooking, etc... There are even Pizza and Cookies settings.This wireless charger is optimized and MFi-certified for use with iPhones, with the ability to charge them 50% faster than standard wireless chargers thanks to its 7.5W fast charge capability. You can charge other Qi-compatible devices with it too.The 5200 has variable speed control that's easy to adjust based on the texture you want. Make large 64 ounce batches. Can even make hot soup since the blades move so fast. Clean it easily with a drop of soap and water. Has 7-year warranty. One of the best portable Bluetooth speakers of the year, the StormBox has 360 degrees of immersive sound. It also uses XBass technology activated with a button press to make your chest thump with the deep lows. It's waterproof and lasts 20 hours.The DS218+ is a two-bay NAS with 2GB DDR3 memory, a dual-core 2.5 GHz processor, hardware encryption, and encrypted sequential read and write speeds. Has live transcoding and three USB 3.0 ports. Some of Potensic's best drones yet are on sale for Black Friday. You can score a major discount by using the appropriate promo code during checkout; some of these deals also require that you clip an on-page coupon at Amazon where available.Whether you're a streamer or just want to be present for some remote video calls, the C920S is a great webcam. It can record in 1080p resolution and uses a glass lens so your videos are always crisp and vibrant. It has autofocus and light correction.Mophie's gear rarely drops in price, but it we saw some neat Black Friday deals. This battery rarely goes below $40 but dropped to $15 over the weekend before selling out — but now it's back! It has 2 USB ports and a 6000mAh capacity. The Furbo Treat-Tossing Dog Camera lets you reward your pet, even while you're not at home. You'll be able to check in on your pet using an app on your phone, hear and speak to them, and even send out a treat with the press of a button.Various colors of the highly-reviewed JBL Clip 3 Bluetooth speaker are now down to just $30 each thanks to Black Friday. They can last for up to 10 hours on a single charge and feature an integrated carabiner with IPX7 waterproof protection.Status Audio is having a Black Friday sale on three pairs of comfortable Bluetooth 5.0 headphones. You can pick between over-ear or in-ear headphones now at their best prices in Amazon history.The Ultra is Roku's best device with the fastest processor and this is its best price ever. It has a fast channel launch, a lost remote finder, enhanced voice search, and more. It comes with JBL Premium headphones for private listening too.There are a ton of options available in this sale, and pricing starts at just $6 for some of these items. Be sure to check out all the pages of the sale so you don't miss any great deals.Choose between the LG Stylo 5 or the LG G8 ThinQ smartphone for up to 50% off during this Black Friday sale at Amazon. That's easily the best deal we've seen reach either model.It has more than 60 never-before-seen surprises including a few exclusives to Amazon. You get one exclusive millennial girls fashion doll, one boy, one pet, and much more. Amazon has a selection of Contigo water bottles and travel mugs on sale for Black Friday with prices starting as low as $7. Don't miss your opportunity to grab one at some of their best prices to date.Every good streamer needs good gear. Grab a new USB mic from Razer, an Elgato streaming deck, or upgrade your network with router and cable modem deals from Netgear and TP-Link. All of these products are down to super low prices. The Moto G6 is the least expensive option at just $119.99. The Moto Z4 will set you back $389.99, but that's still a $100 discount. Find prices in between on the other models. Great deals every which way. Cooking once for the week really can be helpful to keep you on track, but only if you have containers that will help you store all that food. These will help keep your meals fresh, so you don't waste anything!Never set up a mesh networking system before? Cover yourself in that warm Wi-Fi blanket this Black Friday. You could also upgrade your cable modem and router with some great deals or just extend the range of your current system to cover dead zones.Amazon is offering one of the best deals ever seen on the Apple Watch Series 5 this Black Friday. You'll save an additional $24 off its price at checkout. Various sizes and colors are on sale, too!You'll save from a variety of brands including Acer, Lenovo, Dell, and more. Grab a slim laptop like the Acer Aspire 5, a pre-built desktop like the Dell Inspiron 3470, or a 34-inch curved USB-C monitor from LG. All discounted big time. Choose between Shark's ION P50 cordless upright stick vacuum or the Shark Wandvac handheld vacuum and save up to 60% while supplies last! This sale brings both options down to new low prices at Amazon.These games involve a variety of playing styles, including card games like Cards Against Humanity or Escape Room games like Exit: The Secret Lab. The prices are low but the fun level is high. Impress your friends at the next party. Toss chicken wings, french fries, veggies, and more into this air fryer's 3-quart basket and can cook them faster than in the oven and without oil. This is a new record-low price for Black Friday and the discount applies to all color options. One of the most popular Instant Pots is now down to its best price in Amazon history for just one day only! This 8-quart model combines seven kitchen appliances into one to save you space and help you finish preparing dinner quicker.That's right, this robot vacuum will empty its own dust bin into the base when it's full, and the base can hold up to 30 days worth of dust and debris. It has a self-cleaning brush roll, strong suction, and so much more.Control this smart robotic vacuum cleaner using an app on your phone, or even with your voice! It's compatible with Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, and today's one-day deal brings it to a new low price by over $100.This Black Friday deal saves you $80 and brings it back to the lowest price we've ever seen. This model has a pressure cooker, air fryer, and tender crisper all built into one.There are four Garmin watches on sale here: the Vivoactive 3, Approach S20, Forerunner 645, and Fenix 5S. Each one has a number of different colors you can choose from, and each one does something a little different. Start Black Friday shopping with this one-day sale on gaming PCs, monitors, and more at Amazon. You'll find picks from Razer, LG, Acer, SteelSeries, and more top brands at great low prices while supplies last. You're going to be filing taxes soon anyway, so why not grab this while it's discounted? It also comes with a $10 Amazon gift card.Freetime Unlimited unlocks access to a vast selection of kid-friendly apps, games, movies, TV shows, eBooks, and even music that your child can enjoy on a tablet or phone. You can score a three-month membership for only $1 right now!Time's ticking on this Black Friday sale on Mobvoi smartwatches offering new low prices while supplies last at Amazon and Mobvoi's website. You can also save on the TicPods true wireless earbuds right now.With this smart TV's built-in WebOS platform, you'll be able to binge-watch shows and movies from services like Netflix and Hulu without needing a separate streaming device. It can even be voice controlled with Google Assistant or Alexa. For less than $28, you'll score all eight original Harry Potter movies. From Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone to Deathly Hallows: Part 2, this set is the perfect pickup for new Potter fans or those looking to relive all the movie magic at home.There are four different models available here ranging in price from just $100 up to $630. Samsung makes some great tablets, and if you are in the market for an Android tablet, these are the ones to consider.These earbuds use Bluetooth 5.0 technology for a solid, unbreakable link between your earbuds and your streaming device. The battery lasts up to 5 hours with an extra 15 hours from the charging case. Clip the on-page coupon for the full savings.This AC1200 dual band router can reliably offer internet for up to 20 different devices. It has wired ethernet ports on the back, covers 1,200 square feet, and even has a USB connection on the back.K-Cups may not be the best coffee out there, but there is no denying the convenience that they bring into your life. Right now you can bundle a brewer with a variety of K-Cups and save big on the purchase.These operate on AA batteries that are designed to last for up to two years so you can install them just about anywhere. They can be used inside or outside so take your pick. All the kits are 25% off and get you an Echo Dot at no extra cost.Install this tiny Ring camera in place of your door's peephole to keep an eye on your front porch from anywhere in the world using an app on your phone, or with the included Echo Show 5. This bundle even comes with a rechargeable battery pack.There are plenty of portable hard drives out there, but SSDs don't have moving parts which means they're more durable. That also means they can get pricey. Today's deal gets you the best of both worlds with a record low price on this 1TB model.Several MacBook Air configurations are discounted by $199, but you can save an extra $100 when you choose to check out with No-Rush Shipping. That means you can snag one at its best price yet for the sake of waiting a few extra days for it to arrive.Use the prepaid package in this kit to send a saliva sample to AncestryDNA's testing lab. You'll soon receive an ethnicity estimate with information on where your ancestors are from, how they moved around the world over time, and more.Forget about buying Sonos speakers one by one; this 3.1 Entertainment Set comes with the Sonos Playbar and Sonos Sub at a price that's never been reached before until today! The 5.1 Entertainment Set is on sale today as well.Amazon's one-day deal on this 1080p HD gaming monitor from ViewSonic saves you $30 off its usual cost. It comes with a 3-year warranty and includes HDMI, DVI, and VGA inputs. Today's one-day deal at Amazon saves you $30 off this microSD card's average cost, and it also marks the best price it's ever reached there! It's a Class 10 microSD card and even comes with a 10-year manufacturer's limited warranty.The All-new Kindle Oasis was released this past summer and features one of the largest screens on a Kindle device to date, along with a higher number of LEDs for its screen light, making it easier to read anywhere you go!Magic Mouse 2 is a rechargeable version of its predecessor meaning you no longer need to stock up on AA batteries. It has a multi-touch surface that allows you to perform gestures such as swiping between web pages and scrolling through documents.This light will help you wake up without feeling grumpy with its sunrise effect, and its FM radio or wake sounds are better than your phone alarm. It can also simulate a sunset to help you relax and fall asleep. Clip the on-page coupon to save.This tiny smart speaker plugs right into an AC outlet in your home so you can speak with Alexa, stream music from services like Spotify, control compatible smart home devices using only your voice, and more.If you're in the hunt for an Apple Pencil this Black Friday, now is the time to grab one! Right now on Amazon, you can pick up the first-generation Apple Pencil for just $79, a saving of $20, or 20%, off the usual price of $99.The Nintendo Switch controllers go on sale so rarely, but today's discount matches their Prime Day record-low. There are a few different colors to choose from, but you want to grab a set before they sell out. The Sub is Sonos' wireless subwoofer for deeper bass. Pair it with a Sonos Beam, Playbar, or Playbase for an incredible home theater experience with crystal clear bass you can feel. Both the black and white models are on sale.This is a brand new bundle from Amazon. The Fire TV Blaster adds voice control to any TV, sound bar, or other entertainment device. Combined with the media streaming device and smart speaker, you get full voice control over your media.If you've got a Switch Lite, you need a way to protect it when you take it on the go like this hard shell case with internal storage for cartridges and accessories. Prime members can use the on-page coupon and the below code to save on it.This Alexa-compatible vac uses a dual-gyro system and motion tracking sensors to clean your floors in the most efficient way possible. It won't fall down stairs or get stuck on obstacles and the battery gives it 2.5 hours of cleaning.Built with sport in mind, the Powerbeats Pro have the same Apple smarts as AirPods but in a design that prioritizes comfort and stability. These earbuds last up to 9 hours with 24 hours from the charging case. They are also sweat and water resistant.Normally it sells for $399 and does not drop from that price often. Right now, only the black model is available at $299, and the white one is $20 more.This 7-in-1 cooker is insanely versatile and can help you cook some great meals this winter. If you don't already have an Instant Pot, grab one today and thank us later.Featuring a beautiful edge-to-edge display, powerful A12X Bionic processor, plus Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard support, the latest iPad Pro is a powerhouse. Various configurations are on sale with up to $250 off while supplies last.This is about $30 less than it was selling for in the lead up to Black Friday and is a new all-time low for this model. It has Amazon's Fire TV OS built right in to make streaming your favorite videos even easier.Save on actual PC components like a computer case, liquid cooling, fans, and others. You can also save money on mechanical keyboards, mouse pads, headphones, and more from brands like Corsair and Kensington. All the sizes are on sale, and pricing starts at just $184 for a twin and goes up to $321 for a king, so why are you still reading this and not buying one?This sale includes hard drives, flash drives, microSD cards, and even personal cloud storage devices. You can get low-capacity flash drives or 10TB hard drives, and they are all down to super low prices covered by full warranties.The S5 uses smart navigation to map your house and plan its own routes to clean, though you can also control it with an app on your phone or with your voice. Clipping the coupon on its product page saves you $140 off its usual price at Amazon!These doorbuster deals will only last for one day. The products include a variety of brands and products, including low prices on monitors, gaming mice, tablets, and more. Upgrade your router, your surround sound speakers, or laptop.Whether you need the basic 5-piece kit or want to go all-out with the 14-piece option, you can save big right now. Each of them comes with a free Echo Dot, which you can use to arm and disarm the alarm now.You'll need to enter the coupon during check out, and the $25 credit will be delivered to you within 7-days of your Switch shipping.This one-day sale has 12 different options, ranging in price from $175 to $245. These are all powered by Google's WearOS and can connect to your smartphone with ease.You may have to go to the actual product page to see some of these savings. The keyboard has an aluminum frame. It's plug-and-play so no drivers needed. Has anti-ghosting, both a USB wire and Bluetooth connectivity, and can switch between 3 devices.With Black Friday pricing hitting a bunch of Amazon Echo devices, you can now score the super-popular Echo Dot with an Amazon Smart Plug for just $5 extra. Use it to add voice control to a dumb appliance, set schedules, and more. We've been waiting for this one to come, and it's finally here. Treat yourself to Google's Pixel 3a or 3a XL and save $100 right now. At this price, you won't find a better camera on a smartphone.The thermostat is Alexa compatible so you can use the Echo Dot to control it and change the temperature. Works with HVAC equipment and can save you 23% on energy costs over a year. Has flexible scheduling, remote access, and more.The bundle comes with a battery charger, an extra battery, and a 64GB microSD card. Basically everything you need to film all day. The Hero7 has HyperSmooth video stabilization, Time Warps, 4K recording at 60 fps, and an easy-to-use touchscreen.Plug these in and see, hear, and speak to people or pets from your phone, tablet, or Echo device. Connect all your Ring devices together and watch your entire home. Get notifications when motion is detected. Use the smart display to talk to Alexa, control your smart home, and view security camera feeds. You can manage your calendar, make to-do lists, get weather and traffic updates, and more. Setup video calls with friends and family. Personalize it, tooThis speaker has premium speakers powered by Dolby that play sound in 360 degrees. They have a powerful bass and crisp vocals. Use Alexa to stream music from your favorite spots or just control your smart home. This smart speaker lets kids play music, listen to stories, call friends and family, and more. Parental controls let you approve numbers to call, set daily limits, and automatically filter songs. Comes with 2-year worry-free guarantee. Premium stereo speakers with Dolby processing, a 10.1-inch HD screen, built-in Alexa, and more. Use it in the kitchen to watch recipe videos or set timers. Set it up with Zigbee compatible devices. Talk to Alexa. Originally only available via invite, now anyone can get the Echo Auto. And it's on sale for $20 off the regular price. Connect to Alexa on your phone and play her through your car's speakers. Designed to hear you over traffic, music, and the a/c. The Input connects via 3.5mm audio or Bluetooth and gives you a way to add Alexa to a speaker that wouldn't have it otherwise. This way you can use your awesome old-school speakers and play music with your voice. Get two years of life on a set of AA batteries, two-way audio, live view, motion recording, and free cloud storage. These cameras work with Alexa so you can see motion clips, view the feeds live, and more. Records 1080p video with night vision. The shipping is delayed on this one, but the price is worth the wait. The LED display can show you the time, outdoor temperatures, or timers. Use the speaker to talk to Alexa, set alarms, play music, or pair with a second Echo Dot for stereo sound. Amazon's most popular smart speaker is going to get a lot more popular at this price point. Use the Echo Dot to talk to Alexa, control your smart home with your voice, play music, or set up an intercom between Echo Dots throughout the home.Earlier this year Eero released a new set of routers, and right now they are on sale with prices starting at just $70. If you've been looking to get a new Wi-Fi router or upgrade to a mesh network, now's the time.This bundle comes with the purple and silver Nintendo 2DS XL hardware as well as Mario Kart 7 pre-installed. It normally sells for about $21 more than this, and has never dropped this low before.This wireless controller by PowerA is officially licensed by Nintendo and built to resemble the classic GameCube controller. Purple and Gray variants are now $16 off for the first time ever at Amazon!
This is Neato's highest-spec model which features a D-shaped design for getting in places that other robot vacuums can't. It has laser-guided mapping, works well across various floor types, and can clean for up to 120 minutes before recharging.
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
