Esto también se puede leer en español.Don't show this againBlack Friday deals have come early to Target, plus there are more savings around the corner.Black Friday is almost here, but Target's deals came early in 2019. Target's Black Friday ad has been out for a while, and well-organized shoppers have already gotten a jump on holiday purchases with steep discounts. Scroll down to see which Target deals you can snag now, and which are still to come as we approach Black Friday. We've already had a look at the early Black Friday doorbuster deals from Costco, Amazon, Dell and Walmart, but Target is holding its own with a lineup of awesome deals and deep discounts on tech. In Target's current Black Friday lineup there are big savings on an iPad Pro and Samsung's 65-inch Smart 4K UHD TV, with even more rewards for Target Circle and Target RedCard holders. Combining all those savings, a Target gift could be the best option these holidays, so we'll keep an eye on these and other deals and help you save as the days progress.You can preview the deals and doorbuster sale coming later this month -- including a few we've highlighted below. Because retailers like to start sprinkling some Black Friday fairy dust a few weeks early, you can get a few solid deals well ahead of Thanksgiving. It's an ever-changing tapestry of sales that we try to update often, but here's the best of what you can get at Target  right now.CNET hasn't reviewed this 65-inch model, the UN65RU7100FXZA, but it's a solid performer that puts 65 inches of screen estate in your living room for well under a thousand dollars. It has all the essentials -- Ultra HD 4K video, HDR and Samsung's PurColor processor, which we've seen do a superb job at putting rich color on the screen in other models. There's a saying in the tech business that "shipping is the best feature," and right now, this Samsung is one of just a few current TV deals at Target that's actually in stock and ready for pickup. But if you don't mind waiting, we'd also suggest you take a look at the TCL 65-inch Roku 4K HDR TV as well, which costs $480. That's $200 off the usual price. 
    
    
    
    What are you missing out on by not getting a 2019 iPad Pro? Not a lot -- in fact, if you don't mind using the first-generation Apple Pencil, you can get a superb iPad at a very steep discount. You can see exactly how this iPad is different than the newer 2018 and 2019 models in our detailed comparison. But take my word for it: this 2017 model is the better deal. 
    
    
                            Read our review of the 2017 iPad Pro 10.5-inch.
    
    Though CNET hasn't done a stand-alone review of the Nikon D3500, it's no secret that this is one of the best DSLR bodies for beginners that money can buy. And this bundle is awesome -- you get the camera and a pair of lenses for about $100 less than we can find anywhere else. The 18-55mm lens is a good wide angle-to-normal zoom and the 70-300mm gives you solid telephoto reach. The bundle also includes a bag, battery, charger and other accessories. Note that this bundle will drop to $400 when Target's real Black Friday sale starts during Thanksgiving week.
These are a few of the best deals we've spotted in Target's Black Friday ad. Be sure to check the ad yourself to determine exactly which days these items will be available, and whether they'll be available online or just in-store. Yes! The previous-generation iPad 9.7 hung around at this price for a good chunk of 2019 -- until the newer 10.2 model came along at $329. Although the 128GB model has routinely been on sale for $299, this is the first dip we've seen yet for the 32GB version. That's not a ton of storage, but for many users it's enough.This deal is already available at Amazon. 
Read our iPad 10.2 review.
    
    Originally published earlier this month. Regularly updated to remove expired deals and add new ones. CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on tech products and much more. For the latest deals and updates, follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter. Questions about the Cheapskate blog? Find the answers on our FAQ page, and find more great buys on the CNET Deals page. Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.