Practically every automaker, from juggernauts like the VW Group or Daimler to small start-ups, is jumping into the EV bandwagon, yet sales are abysmal – and will probably will continue to be until one big problem is solved: their high prices.According to JATO’s most recent study, which included 43 different world markets, in the first half of 2019 the average price of an electric car was 81 per cent higher than that of other vehicles. Which, along with the (mostly) limited charging infrastructure, explains why buyers shy away from purchasing them.In Europe, the second largest EV market after China, the average price of cars registered in H1 this year totaled $34,091. By comparison, the cheapest electric car available, the Renault Zoe, is priced on average at $35,036, the Tesla Model 3 costs $67,440, and the Jaguar I-Pace exceeds the $100k mark, although all these prices exclude any incentives, which vary in each country. Thus, their total market share was just 1.9 percent, which still makes EVs a rather small niche.Here’s a Close Look At The ID.3, Volkswagen’s Most Important New Car In Many DecadesThe situation in the United States and Canada is quite similar. The average price of vehicles sold is slightly higher than in Europe, at $35,614 per unit, which can be explained by the popularity of vehicles like pickups or trucks that accounted for an 18% market share with an average price of $43,650. While the cheapest EV, the Nissan Leaf, starts at $32,506, the best-seller, Tesla’s Model 3, comes at $47,467 (again, excluding any incentives), making it 21 percent more expensive than the average car sold and surpassing even the average SUV or pickup truck. Factor in American’s dislike for small cars, and things become even clearer.If there’s a silver lining in this cloud, that’s China. As JATO’s report notes, the Chinese government has put its weight behind electric vehicles and is pushing hard for electrification; moreover, local safety standards are more lax than those in the US or Europe, which allows for lower costs.That is reflected in their pricing: while the market average sits at $26,715, you can get the Chery EQ1 city car for $20,260 or the BYD’s Yuan subcompact SUV for for just $15,279. And since this the world’s largest market for all vehicles, including EVs, it could make a difference, although electric sedans, which have a huge, 42 per cent market share, are still more expensive than the rest.So, with the sole exception of China, do electric cars still have a long way to go before they become popular? It depends. Like we mentioned earlier, major manufacturers are investing heavily into this segment – and one good example is the new VW ID.3 that, at nearly $33,000, comes under the total market average. Moreover, costs of both manufacturing and batteries will inevitably fall, resulting in making EVs more affordable. Therefore, if we were to come to a conclusion, it would be that yes, right now EVs are niche, but they are definitely coming. It’s only a matter of time until their makers can figure out how to price them equally, or at least close to, the rest.no shiz… as is every gasoline car/suv. ALL vehicles are OVER PRICED.Maybe they meant something like, I don’t know… a price difference between combustion engine cars and the electric ones?The Problem With Electric Cars is the battery waste combined with the electric power production deficit.
More concerns should involve various aspects from the supply of materials needed for batteries up to the infrastructires needed for end consumersAdd the fact that electricity is a transitional power source for cars which should be the nail in the coffin.
However the way to fuel cells will be long enough so that everyone in the industry will be able to benefit from EVs.Also, the exploitation African (slave) miners to gather rare metals used for battery parts.What a bunch of nonsense. If we are comparing the “battery waste” compared to the various exhaust, oils and waste from other fluids from ICE vehicles, there’s no comparison. Combined with the reality that battery packs are taken out of commission once they reach 80% of their original capacity. In most situations so far, the batteries last for well over 200k miles. Then they are either be recycled or used for power storage for the grid. Batteries from EV’s contain valuable materials, and aren’t just tossed into a landfill.Like it or not, a bunch of nonsense is your short-eyed thinking.
Battery waste is already an issue for scientists. Naming only a study conducted in the UK, the electric cars sold in 2017 will produce 250,000 tonnes of unprocessed battery pack waste in their lifetime.But hey, you may know better…I might indeed. Please provide whatever link you have to this study. I’d like to understand the assumptions behind that theory. I’m sure that it’ll be rock solid.You mght indeed have to provide the reasoning behind your right of bossy behavior.For whoever else interested in this specidic study, the author is Dr Garvin Haroer, Faraday Institution Research Fellow at the University of Birmingham
and responsible for the development of the Birmingham Energy Institute.Ignoring you’re insults. And I’m not finding anything from the Institute you provided that echoes what you’re saying. Just send the link of the study you’re referencing please. The info I’m finding from the Faraday Institution precisely supports my position.I find it funny that people that like to defend electric cars say that it’s being “green” and it “helps the environment“ when mining the materials is toxic and dangerous the hypocrisy is hilarious.So I live in a country with a 100% renewable energy grid..(wind, solar, aqua and nuclear) and if I would buy an ev that would run for maybe 10 years. On a as good as a carbon neutral grid. I would need some new tires now and than and hopefully no fixes but that’s random with any car. But no engine fixes at least. But an ICE needs oil changes and ofcourse fuell which is a demand for an oil infrastructure with boats, refineries, gasstations and oil platforms not once but every time I would fill up. Ofcourse we do need an grid for electricity just like an gasstation and refineries (Talking about hypocrisy). Less oil means for many countries less dependent on other countries. And as an EV owner you can take away your dependence of any outside sources buy investing in solar or maybe an own small windtubine. So not sure what your complains are your response seems very emotional and hate based not knowledge based.The price will not come down as people are forced into them by Government decree, which is now closer than ever. The whole thing is a massive Global Banking scam designed to trap the world in debt at the personal, corporate and Nation/State level by ripping out the global civilisation infrastructure and replacing it at massive expense. Climate-change, real or not, is merely the lever, not the reason. I knew this to be true the minute orgs like Goldman Sachs started pretending to care.Common people can do nothing about it. When it is about big power or money, then there are always some big corporations, countries, etc. playing with each other to get as much as they can. It comes down to a simple greed. It will always be like that unless humans evolve into some collective mind civilization. We can just hope not to get screwed too much.Jews,Democrats,Republicans,Elitists and Globalists want to enslave us all and keep us in debt to pay their outrageously high interest rates on their fake funny monopoly money.Jews……say what now?We got ourselves a good ole boy here.You sound like a crazy conspiracy nutjob.. This is just simplistic, dumb and trowing with words..For me, the problem with electric cars is lack of charging infrastructure. Nothing at my apartment building. Nothing at work. What am I supposed to do? Sit at a charging station for an hour or more? I don’t think so.Everything is overpriced and these are worse, because there is no infrastructure to speak of yet to support them to go along with the high pricesPart of what makes many electric cars so expensive is the pointless levels of performance. I am speaking specifically of luxury brands like Tesla, Audi, etc. that create EVs with a 210 mile range and a 0-60 time like a supercar. Don’t get me wrong, I most certainly like strong performance; but what would the range be if it hit 60 in seven seconds instead of four? The cost? Much longer and much lower, likely. Most current EVs are ultra-luxury items with stupidly skewed priorities.I do believe that the average prices are being pushed up because of the main luxury segment focusing on EVs first. This year multiple EVs came out with lower price segments like Corsa-e, 208e, zoe (50kwh) ext..You aren’t factoring in the resistance to change from the conventional car makers who are quite comfortable with the status quo.Electric vehicles should and will be cheaper than internal combustion equivalents as soon as the car and oil industry surrenders their monopolies.Electric cars will not be nearly as reliable as gas powered cars. Once the battery depletes overtime and degrades good luck getting the battery pack replaced since it’ll be worth more than what the cars worth.Source on reliability comments?Look at Tesla their reliability still sucks and isn’t very good.Electric cars have 100 times less moving parts. DummySo? Once the battery dies it’ll cost more than what your EV costs to replace.You truely believe that?Dont like to say this to people but you might need to read upp on EVs. Less movable parts. And batteries can last at least 200k miles because of the battery management systems. They might experience some degradation but not enough to worry about.Only 200k miles? ICE cars have been known to last well beyond 500,000 mileslol, yes offcouse there have been some 500 miles cars, do not ask what they needed for repairs.. and out of how many cars existed to get a couple of these high milages cars. btw why is it crap, you seem extreemly short sighted there are reasons why EVs are more reliable. Which is less moving parts as easy as that.What a load of crap. It has more to do with the production of the batteries along with other materials used in the manufacturing process. ICEs have had over a century to develop which subsequently brought down the costs.The same will happen to EVs given enough time.Expensive,ugly,heavy and problems with long-term reliability are just a few of the many problems that EV’s will face. Hydrogen fuel cell technology needs to hurry up and take off.Read up on fuell cell, more parts, pressure drops fuell stations, extremely expensive, not as long lasting fuel cells. It’s a nice idea but it has been in development for at least the last 20 years. It’s also an energy inefficient process to get hydrogen maybe only when there is an over production of electricity its an option to store it in hydrogen but always with losses.Nonsense. Hydrogen in the long term will be a much better alternative to EV’s.Based on what? whishfull thinking? Evs are out now being build in higher amounts the current hydrogen cars are barely there. why would you even want to be dependent on a company that produces expansive hydrogen so you can drive with taxes on top of that? While you can choose for a tax free own generated solar, wind energy. I thought you were agains globalism and paying people money and being depended on others so why the hate for an option that can give you this freedom and hope for an option that will give you dependence of major companies like the oil industrie. Btw maybe the future will bring hydrogen to a more payable level but untill now there is litterly nothing pointing at this.Not selling price but definetely lack of charging technology & infrastructure is problemNope it’s the lack of the infrastructure. Even if you have charging stations at home or at work it might not be the same if you travel elsewhere. It’s nowhere near the comfort of having a petrol car and not worrying about finding a gas station and not having to plan stops along the way.It’s the lack of range, the different charging requirements, and finally the cost. Get the infrastructure set up and everything using the same type of plugs, then maybe people will start to change over. Keep in mind that people see what’s happening in California where people with electric vehicles can’t charge up because of rolling blackouts.Rolling blackouts and you’re dead in the water with an EV.All over the world they are to expensive , exept in Norway there ice cars are overpriced and EV cars are “tax free”Not overpriced but taxed because of the pollution they create, rightly so.Road tax and pollution tax are two different stories. Do not mix up them please.EV’s should be taxed they use the roads like everyone else they should pay a tax the same with the operators of charging stations.There’s a difference between saying EV’s are “too expensive” and that they’re “not cheap enough.” I would agree that automakers don’t offer EV’s that are cheap enough for a lot of people. There isn’t a bare bones Sentra-level EV for the masses. However, I absolutely do not think that most current EV’s are too expensive. Because you get a lot of car for your money. EV’s have only been produced in meaningful numbers for about seven years. Today you can get a Model 3, which is one of the best cars in the world, for around $36k and have access to a very inexpensive “fueling” charging network. Even setting aside incentives, most good EVs are considerably cheaper to operate than comparable gas vehicles. Even though my EV was more expensive than the SUV it replaced, I spend much less overall because it hasn’t required any maintenance and I haven’I had to pay hardly anything for fuel because I have unlimited supercharging. Even though the upfront cost was higher, the overall cost is lower. So for me, it’s not “too expensive.”Evs, and in particular Teslas are “cheaper to operate” until something breaks down. Then you will pay hand over fist. Check out TFL cars and their Tesla Model 3 which suffered minor damage to tail light. Just few hundred dollars and a day in shop right?? WRONG!!! It cost three months and $20K to repair. Only in Tesla-land!!Uhm seriously you would believe it would cost 20k ….Hey just check out TFL cars! They are not some scammers, just reporing real expense and hassles of owning a Tesla!!Batteries are an other story but prices will drop. The high average price in this article is also due to the high amount of more luxury class (tesla, Audi, Jaguars, Porsche) ev sales which ICE has way more lower versions that are being sold. People seem to be willing to spend more on EVs atm than ICEs cars. Cause most came from lower cost ICE cars before the EV buy. It’s likely the most expensive car they ever bought.If EV and batteries are so good how come they haven’t advanced much if at all in over 100 years then like you said?I’ve asked this before, but do you know how many lithium there is out there? Is it enought to build batteries which will replace all cars, considering the fact that we also need a lot for all other type of batteries (not only cars)? I’ve heard about some new technologies and how amazing they are, but nothing new appeared in the last 15-20 years and I guess nothing will in the same period.Just compare that to a japanese ICE car I owned for 25 years. Total cost of repairs during 25 years was only $3K! I repeat only $3K TOTAL! Of course it helped I did all the repair work on the car myself, but hard to imagine how Tesla (which is non-seviciable by owner) can be so inexpensive over 25 years of ownership. After warrenty expires Teslas will be extremely expensive to own and operate!Tata is reportedly in early talks with the two car makers and could still approach other companies.The 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio look unchanged on the outside but feature many interior and tech upgrades.The 1958 Plymouth Fury in question takes inspiration from the 1983 horror film Christine.Larte Design’s body kit for the Mercedes-Benz V-Class includes some carbon fiber add-ons.The Mitsubishi Xpander Cross offers a higher ground clearance and SUV-inspired styling cues.The final output numbers of this Supra engine are still a secret, but at least we get to listen to its growl.Unlike Daimler, BMW reportedly have their CO2 compliance costs under control for next year.The central-mounted exhausts that Porsche’s trying to mask seemsto suggest that a hotter Cayenne Coupe is coming.The fifth generation Honda City is based on the new Fit/Jazz and is less than 2 weeks away from its debut.The Mercedes-Maybach GLS will rival the Bentayga and Cullinan and will be unveiled in China on November 21.