Tesla unveiled their all-new Roadster in 2017, and it’s finally ready for launch. However, fans will likely be disappointed as the car is arriving as a 1:18 scale model.
Priced from $250, the model was created with the assistance of the company’s design team and “every detail, curve and surface was replicated from the same 3D CAD data used to manufacture the actual Roadster.”The end result is a high quality scale model that features more than 180 plastic and metal components. Among them are a removable roof and functioning doors. The “trunk” also opens and gives us a better look at how massive the liftgate really it. Other notable features include a large diffuser, aggressive side skirts and stylish wheels wrapped in rubber tires.Also Read: Tesla Shocks Us With New Roadster, Does 0-60 In 1.9 Sec!The high quality construction continues in the cabin as the die-cast model has fabric seat belts, carpeting and a working steering wheel. We can also see the tall door sills that could impact entry and egress.The model can only be shipped to US and Canadian customers, and Tesla says the car measures 9.9 inches (252 mm) long, 4.3 inches (109.5 mm) wide and 2.7 inches (70 mm) tall.Tesla hasn’t said much about the Roadster lately, but the base model is slated to have all-wheel drive and a high-tech powertrain that enables the car to accelerate from 0-60 mph (0-96 km/h) in 1.9 seconds. Other claimed specs include a range of 620 miles (998 km), a top speed in excess of 250 mph (402 km/h) and a quarter mile time of 8.8 seconds.Of course, the biggest figure is the price. The standard Roadster costs $200,000 while the Founders Series retails for $250,000. Tesla is currently accepting reservations for $50,000.If the Roadster doesn’t tickle your fancy, you can opt for other models including the Semi which also retails for $250. FUNNY AS I WAS READING THE ARTICLE I WAS THINKING I KNOW ONE PERSON WHO’D BE THRILLED…
ERIK OF DAERIK FAME.Does it have an RC?I like diecast models that light up. Adds such a nice touch.Isn’t it more of a targa top though?I’d hope not. I think the base vehicles should have the targa option, like the C7.That’s not a Roadster, they should name it differently.Nice! I know what i’m gonna get at christmas!Finally, Tesla makes a profit from selling a carA diecast car that you will soon regret after buying it because it has poor build quality and just seeing it sit and collect dust oh wait that’s typical of regular teslas nevermind.As much fun as driving a car like this might be, you got to admit an interior like that will get old fast. Talk about drab.Drab and boring uninspired and lazy well that’s teslas interior design language for you “minimalistic” to them means uninspired and boring.LOL 200-250k for this POS with no dashboard design whatsoever,questionable reliability and build quality. Elon Musk is going to have a field day duping all the stupid people who buy this car.Even at 50 bucks it’s overpriced and has crappy build quality because it’s made in China.For a $250 scale model, you deserve smaller/tighter creases and panel gaps as well as more general detail (though I suppose Teslas are rather lacking in that department in real life as well).Tata is reportedly in early talks with the two car makers and could still approach other companies.The 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio look unchanged on the outside but feature many interior and tech upgrades.The 1958 Plymouth Fury in question takes inspiration from the 1983 horror film Christine.Larte Design’s body kit for the Mercedes-Benz V-Class includes some carbon fiber add-ons.The Mitsubishi Xpander Cross offers a higher ground clearance and SUV-inspired styling cues.The final output numbers of this Supra engine are still a secret, but at least we get to listen to its growl.Unlike Daimler, BMW reportedly have their CO2 compliance costs under control for next year.The central-mounted exhausts that Porsche’s trying to mask seemsto suggest that a hotter Cayenne Coupe is coming.The fifth generation Honda City is based on the new Fit/Jazz and is less than 2 weeks away from its debut.The Mercedes-Maybach GLS will rival the Bentayga and Cullinan and will be unveiled in China on November 21.