Buyers of new BMW models will be able to add more functions to their vehicles post purchase via the company’s updated ConnectedDrive Store.BMW owners will be able to activate functions such as the High-Beam Assistant, the Active Cruise Control (ACC) driver assistance system with Stop&Go, and the BMW Drive Recorder, with the German brand to add more functions over time.“We want to offer our customers different dimensions of sheer driving pleasure – including the latest digital services and the possibility of booking functions as needed,” said Peter Henrich, Senior VP, BMW Product Management. “All new BMW vehicles are now technologically enabled for this and we will be systematically expanding this offering.”Also Read: 2020 BMW X3 Goes Down The Plug-In Hybrid Route With New xDrive30eThis means that customers will be offered new digital options for features that may not have been available at the time of buying or leasing their vehicle. That includes new models fitted with BMW’s Remote Software Upgrade technology (on the Operating System 7.0) that were first purchased in August 2019.This follows BMW’s announcement to charge an annual fee for having Apple CarPlay on its cars, which was met with criticism, but the German manufacturer appears confident that this is the way to go. “In the long run, we could also imagine digital services no longer being linked to the car, but to the customer who books them,” added Henrich. Other functions that might follow in the future include Remote Engine Start or Adaptive M Suspension.Of course for that to happen, BMW will have to fit its models with all the necessary hardware from the get-go, a practice pioneered by Tesla; both the High-Beam Assistant and the Active Cruise Control with Stop&Go are apparently available to every car but to activate the BMW Drive Recorder, your car will have to be fitted with the Parking Assistant Plus which has the necessary camera hardware.“Our goal is to ensure the customer no longer has to adapt to the specifics of their vehicle, but for the vehicle to be geared instead towards their personal and individual requirements,” explains Jens Thiemer, Senior VP, Customer and Brand BMW.Basically micro transaction / subscription serving stuff that used to be standard. My i3 used to have the traffic real time information updates, after the software update you need to pay $50 yearly for that one service.Yeah, it’s paying for DLC that’s already on the “disc”. And it’s super crappy.Oh well, if people want to pay for it, they will.And I thought only game publishers did that crap. Great.Would cars get cheaper or just get more expensive that should be the questionTESLA BEATERS MIMICKING TESLA. HA!Tesla did not invent the OTA updateNAME ANOTHER CAR COMPANY THAT GAVE YOU MORE POWER OR IMPROVED YOUR BRAKING DISTANCE AFTER YOU DROVE OFF THE LOT.Tesla does not add power to your car. It’s the other way around. They are limiting the capacity of the battery and the performance and charging you to “unlock” it. You cannot OTA update like from a 100D to a P100D.THEY DIDN’T CHARGE FOR THE 5% INCREASE IN POWER A FEW MONTHS BACK. DO YOU SPEND THIS MUCH TIME DEBATING OTHER CAR COMPANIES? WHY THE HATE?Why the caps lock?ASKED AND ANSWERED…AD NAUSEAM. NOW BACK TO THE TOPIC OF THE CONVERSATION…lol is this real life. “You have chosen to lower your temperature to 65F, please purchase the “HVAC Ultimate Controls Package” today!”“You have Parked this vehicle 1500 times so far. To purchase more Park, please subscribe to our “Don’t Have to Keep Moving Package” for $45/day.”“YOU HAVE ONE MORE FREE ARTICLE LEFT, SUBSCRIBE NOW”Just more crap to rent ! Enough already ! If the function requires no external service and the hardware is already in the car why pay more to use what you bought already ??? If it needs an external service to work ok then.Why should anyone need to pay for CarPlay or Android Auto… isn’t this something offered commonly on economy cars? Let alone subscribe annually for things like automatic high beams and cruise control.The 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio look unchanged on the outside but feature many interior and tech upgrades.The 1958 Plymouth Fury in question takes inspiration from the 1983 horror film Christine.Larte Design’s body kit for the Mercedes-Benz V-Class includes some carbon fiber add-ons.The Mitsubishi Xpander Cross offers a higher ground clearance and SUV-inspired styling cues.The final output numbers of this Supra engine are still a secret, but at least we get to listen to its growl.Unlike Daimler, BMW reportedly have their CO2 compliance costs under control for next year.The central-mounted exhausts that Porsche’s trying to mask seemsto suggest that a hotter Cayenne Coupe is coming.The fifth generation Honda City is based on the new Fit/Jazz and is less than 2 weeks away from its debut.The Mercedes-Maybach GLS will rival the Bentayga and Cullinan and will be unveiled in China on November 21.This technology allows Ford to create better quality seat covers and offer lots of personalization options.