The Genesis brand will soon be a lot more than just prestige sedans, as the luxury division of Hyundai plans to roll out a six-strong model portfolio by 2021. One of these includes a compact luxury SUV called the GV70 that will follow the larger GV80. You can think of it as the crossover version of the G70 sedan in terms of size, going up against the likes of BMW’s X3 and X4 and Mercedes-Benz GLC and GLC Coupe.Fortunately for us, a plethora of spy photography capturing the GV70 has given us a good insight into to what it will look like. However, what else can we expect from South Korea’s upcoming offering? Let us delve further.Sensual exterior stylingMake no mistake, the GV70 is a bold statement that’s more in-line with BMW’s X4 than a traditional crossover. One major talking point is its sleek glasshouse with chrome-work flowing down over the c-pillars. It’s a sleeker adaptation of the same treatment used on Hyundai’s Palisade. Another noteworthy design element is a curved shoulder line that cascades down to the rear haunches, again emphasizing its elegant, yet sporting nature.Frontal styling sports a large shield-framed mesh grille, split LED headlamps and a Bentley-like central crease on the hood. The view from the rear features split taillights that mimic the ones at the front, a large rear diffuser with dual vertical exhausts, and a steeply raked rear hatch that could have been plucked from Kia’s ProCeed sport brake.Opulent accommodation insideInterior design complements the exterior’s sleek nature, with cascading lines and ovoid shapes. Lashings of high-quality leathers and piano black trim will be used throughout the cabin, and the center console features a BMW iDrive-style controller. Whilst we’ve yet to lay eyes on the dashboard, we expect it to feature some form of tablet display and digital instrument cluster, being very close in design to the updated version of the G70 sedan that’s scheduled for release the same year.Read: 2019 Genesis G70 Deemed A True Sports Sedan In Latest ReviewTechnophiles will appreciate the 8-inch head-up display, 360-degree camera, smartphone mirroring, and a Lexicon premium sound system. A full suite of driver assists will be available; including lane-keeping aid, park assist, safe exit assist and a Tesla-like remote parking system (let’s hope that one is trouble-free).Let’s talk powerAs it’s based on the same platform as the G70, powertrains are likely to be mirrored too. These will include a 2.0-litre turbo-four, with north of 252 hp and 260 pound-feet (353 Nm) of torque, a new 2.5-litre turbocharged four-cylinder engine producing 303hp (226kW), and a thumping twin-turbo 3.3-litre V6 pumping out a staunch 365 hp and 376 lb-ft (510 Nm).Other potential engine variants (not confirmed) include a 2.2 or 3.0-litre turbodiesel for international markets outside the U.S., and possibly a plug-in hybrid option. An eight-speed automatic transmission will be standard, feeding power to all four wheels.Rivals and revealThe GV70 will battle it out against a myriad of very good crossovers that include the likes of BMW’s X3 and X4, Audi Q5, Range Rover Evoque, Volvo XC60, Porsche Macan, Mercedes-Benz GLC Coupe, Jaguar F-Pace, Infiniti QX50, and Lincoln Corsair.Whilst its big brother, the GV80 SUV could debut this month with a market launch pegged for next year, the GV70 is tipped to arrive in North American dealerships approximately 12 months later, in 2021, when Genesis will also refresh the G70 sedan.What will it cost?Evidently, it’s too early to have pricing in our hands, but knowing that the related AWD G70 sedan begins from $37,450, we can speculate that the four-cylinder GV70 could start in the low $40,000s range, with the V6 in high $40,000s range.What are your thoughts on the GV70? Share your views in the comments below. Not sure why, but the new grille, while horrible on the sedan- fits nicely on this SUV.There’s more room for it.Buick Called, The Lacrosse want’s it’s bodyside backstfu incelLooks like a Hearse!yes like mini hearseIt reminds me of Opel Astra Sports Tourer which also has these chrome bars on the sides making the car look like a hearse.GreatI like it. I’m not going to get one but I do think it has some original styling. The powertrains in this will be predictable. We all know what Genesis/Hyundai/KIA uses under the hoods and we all know that they don’t have special, one off engines because that would cost more and then the price of their vehicles wouldn’t be as competitive.Do I see a slight resemblance to the Pontiac Aztec?Ya know, these days they have doctors that can fix your eyes. You should check it out. :pI like it personally, I think it looks great. With the 3.3TT I think it’ll be a great option for a sporty SUV.Looks like a hearse.Will customers still have to share a service lounge with the woman and her two bratty kids that are waiting for repairs on her 20-year old Hyundai Excel?Funny to see the return of a Porsche 928/ Amc Pacer design feature.Looks like they finally learned how to make an attractive grille. The overall design is quite nice.The 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio look unchanged on the outside but feature many interior and tech upgrades.The 1958 Plymouth Fury in question takes inspiration from the 1983 horror film Christine.Larte Design’s body kit for the Mercedes-Benz V-Class includes some carbon fiber add-ons.The Mitsubishi Xpander Cross offers a higher ground clearance and SUV-inspired styling cues.The final output numbers of this Supra engine are still a secret, but at least we get to listen to its growl.Unlike Daimler, BMW reportedly have their CO2 compliance costs under control for next year.The central-mounted exhausts that Porsche’s trying to mask seemsto suggest that a hotter Cayenne Coupe is coming.The fifth generation Honda City is based on the new Fit/Jazz and is less than 2 weeks away from its debut.The Mercedes-Maybach GLS will rival the Bentayga and Cullinan and will be unveiled in China on November 21.This technology allows Ford to create better quality seat covers and offer lots of personalization options.