While EV fans count the days to the debut of Tesla’s electric pickup on November 21, another California-based company has revealed two battery-powered trucks.We’re talking about Neuron EV, a startup founded in 2017 which declares itself the first Electric Utility Vehicle company. Earlier this week at the 2019 China International Import Expo in Shanghai, the company has unveiled the T/One all-in-one EUV (electric utility vehicle) and the Torq semi-truck.If they end up getting mass-produced, the T/One and Torq will be competitors for Tesla’s electric pickup and the Semi, respectively. The T/One is a multipurpose vehicle created for commercial and personal use while the Torq is an electric semi-truck developed to be the next generation solution for commercial transportation.Related: Hyundai’s HDC-6 Neptune Concept Will Make You Forget About Tesla’s SemiBoth vehicles are based on a modular platform and place emphasis on versatility. The basic tractor unit features a scalable chassis, allowing users to easily attach and detach interchangeable body components, therefore changing the vehicle’s appearance and functionality.According to the company, the electric drivetrain optimizes floor room and lowers the center of gravity, creating an easy to drive platform. In a similar way to cargo vans, the cabin is shifted forward to maximize driving visibility, interior roominess, and cargo capacity.Without getting into specifics, Neuron EV says the trucks feature a multi-source propulsion system drawing power from an all-electric traction battery pack, replaceable reserve power, and a removable solar panel truck bed cover.The interiors are at least as interesting as the exteriors, with both trucks featuring a central driving position and a panoramic 360-degree view courtesy of wireless cameras connected to the driver’s screen. The EVs feature no physical knobs and switches thanks to a vehicle interface compatible “with the latest gadgets and internet solutions.”The big question is obviously when (and if) these pre-production prototypes will morph into models people will actually be able to buy.ONCE THEY GET PAST THE SKETCH STAGE GET BACK TO US.I love these designs! Futuristic yet mostly realistic and doable today.Looks passably like a modified, second edition, Tesla truck.Who?Finally things starting to look 21st century.There is nothing here that existed before Tesla released their truck (actual, really driveable, highway tested and ongoing, passed national safety (council) crash testing, had factory built to begin a production line in, had battery factories built and under way, sold out first production run with orders paid up – more than 10 trucks ordered, to date, for Australian delivery.).
Come back in 10 years fellas!!!!!
BTW, nice effort.Looks pretty cool. It just needs some semi-autonomous features and it’ll be perfect.Is this yet another “hey we googled how to make an electric vehicle and we have some really wicked sketches! We even gave it a square steering wheel so you know we’re legit! Now just give us five billion dollars so we can build a factory by 2030” companies??LOL oh look another “start up” backed by Chinese money. This will be good and end up a disaster. That interior is a disaster.The 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio look unchanged on the outside but feature many interior and tech upgrades.The 1958 Plymouth Fury in question takes inspiration from the 1983 horror film Christine.Larte Design’s body kit for the Mercedes-Benz V-Class includes some carbon fiber add-ons.The Mitsubishi Xpander Cross offers a higher ground clearance and SUV-inspired styling cues.The final output numbers of this Supra engine are still a secret, but at least we get to listen to its growl.Unlike Daimler, BMW reportedly have their CO2 compliance costs under control for next year.The central-mounted exhausts that Porsche’s trying to mask seemsto suggest that a hotter Cayenne Coupe is coming.The fifth generation Honda City is based on the new Fit/Jazz and is less than 2 weeks away from its debut.The Mercedes-Maybach GLS will rival the Bentayga and Cullinan and will be unveiled in China on November 21.This technology allows Ford to create better quality seat covers and offer lots of personalization options.