It’s been nearly three years since Lucid Motors unveiled the Air.The model was originally slated to go into production in 2018, but the company ran into the same problem faced by a number of other electric vehicle startups: lack of funding.The company acknowledged the issue in 2017 and, at the time, there were rumors that Lucid was attempting to sell itself to Ford. That never happened, and the money issue was eventually solved when Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund agreed to invest $1 billion (£780 / €905 million) into Lucid.Related: Ex-Tesla Production Boss Heads To Lucid MotorsNow that the company has the cash it needs, it is going ahead with its plans. In an announcement, the automaker confirmed they have broken ground on their factory in Casa Grande, Arizona. While there isn’t much to see at this point, Lucid said grading began in September and they’re now “drilling and forming the caissons that will provide the structural foundation of the facility.”While work is just getting underway, Lucid says the plant will begin building the Air in late 2020. That’s an ambitious timeline, but at least the pieces are starting to fall into place.The entry-level Air is slated to cost $52,500 after tax incentives and, according to its maker, provide “superior comfort, a better user interface and better performance than comparably priced BMWs and Mercedes-Benzes.”As we have previously reported, the base model will be rear-wheel drive and have an electric powertrain that produces 400 hp (298 kW / 405 PS), while offering a range of 240 miles (386 km) on a single charge. Customers looking for more range will be able to order larger battery packs that enable the car to travel for 315 miles (506 km) or 400 miles (643 km) on a single charge. If things go as planned, we can also expect high performance variants, including one with all-wheel drive and up to 1,000 HP (745 kW / 1,013 PS). Who exactly is going to drop big bucks on all these startup products? Yes, folks took a chance on Tesla, but that’s because (and only because) Elon is fairly well-known. I’m not adverse to business startups, but instead, I’d offer a $10K product, not $75-100K ones.$10k? Even regular manufactures can’t do that…I would love to have this one.please make it a real thing, looks awesome.What people don’t know is the area this is being built in is very dangerous and is full of homeless people and is known for Meth and Theft. Why they chose Casa Grande is beyond me. The area is worse than most Getty’s on Tv.I live there and completely disagree. Do you live here? I’m sure you don’t. Looking forward to this being completed along with the Atessa motorsports complex.“Lucid says the plant will begin building the Air in late 2020.” I’ll take “Things That Will Never Happen” for $400, Alex.Tesla went from a swampy field and permits to a functioning factory in 8 months. Never say never.It is possible, as China proved, I’m just not sure it is in the US with all the required paperwork and sign offs.Are there anyone in the US that will say no to Saudi money?Is there anyone anywhere in the world that would turn down a billion dollars of investment? Not defending it, but its not like that’s behavior that’s unique to Americans.I think he means that the chances of a startup that hasn’t produced one car ever ,is going to build out an entire factory tool it staff it and have cars being produced within one year Taking any bets?FYI I am rooting for all EVs to succeed especially if they’re building plants in the United States.Sweet, I love its looks!Now this is the electric car I’ve always wanted. Can’t wait to see in person.At least they seem to have their house in order unlike Faraday Future. I get it, they got Saudi oil money. If it works for them and they can actually put this into production I’d be willing to look past that.All these start ups are building what looks like the exact samething. They are making a medium sized luxury car. Instead of making another Tesla they should have come in with an SUV just to differentiate themselves.There’s been multiple ones building trucks and SUVs (Rivian comes to mind). Which, certainly because of the current marketplace and consumer demand, making a sedan versus an SUV seems like a bit of a risk.Hey, this is that new Optima everyone’s been waiting for, right?Another Faraday like scam…..announcement after announcement, board change after board change, if they ever reach production (and that’s a big IF) they’re already years behind the big manufacturers, and well behind the market which is moving to cheap and mass produced. Low volume luxury…….fail.Okay. The front end looks very Honda Accord, but still looks nice.no this cars front end is not hideous like the honda accordI don’t see why these EV companies don’t just pool their resources together. It’s going to be very difficult to compete with VW, Toyota, GM, etc in 3-5 years. It’s almost like most of them are short-term money-grab scams that don’t intend to be around in 5 years.There’s plenty of empty car factories around this countryTata is reportedly in early talks with the two car makers and could still approach other companies.The 2020 Alfa Romeo Giulia and Stelvio look unchanged on the outside but feature many interior and tech upgrades.The 1958 Plymouth Fury in question takes inspiration from the 1983 horror film Christine.Larte Design’s body kit for the Mercedes-Benz V-Class includes some carbon fiber add-ons.The Mitsubishi Xpander Cross offers a higher ground clearance and SUV-inspired styling cues.The final output numbers of this Supra engine are still a secret, but at least we get to listen to its growl.Unlike Daimler, BMW reportedly have their CO2 compliance costs under control for next year.The central-mounted exhausts that Porsche’s trying to mask seemsto suggest that a hotter Cayenne Coupe is coming.The fifth generation Honda City is based on the new Fit/Jazz and is less than 2 weeks away from its debut.The Mercedes-Maybach GLS will rival the Bentayga and Cullinan and will be unveiled in China on November 21.