
                            TNW uses cookies to personalize content and ads to
                            make our site easier for you to use.
                            We do also share that information with third parties for
                            advertising & analytics.
                        
            by Napier Lopez
            — 
                        in Twitter
Yesterday, news broke that Twitter would begin to get rid of accounts that hadn’t been used in over six months, starting on December 11. While it makes some sense to purge Twitter of perfectly good usernames that are going unused, some users wondered what would happen with the accounts of the deceased.At the time, Twitter didn’t have an answer beyond the team is “thinking about ways to do this.” Now the company is clarifying its account removal policy, while also appearing to delay the move altogether. It sent out a tweetstorm today clarifying the policy.We’ve heard your feedback about our effort to delete inactive accounts and want to respond and clarify. Here’s what’s happening:— Twitter Support (@TwitterSupport) November 27, 2019Join us on Dec. 11 for the ultimate team outingFirstly, the company clarified that the move only affects EU accounts for now. The company says it has “always had an inactive account policy” but is only starting to enforce consistently now to comply with the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).The company then continued to explain it will delay the account purge until it figures out how to deal with those owned by dead people.We’ve heard you on the impact that this would have on the accounts of the deceased. This was a miss on our part. We will not be removing any inactive accounts until we create a new way for people to memorialize accounts.— Twitter Support (@TwitterSupport) November 27, 2019It does not say when it plans to have a way to memorialize accounts available, but a delay was probably a good move. Though initially done to comply with GDPR, the company may expand the account removal policy to other regions.
Read next:

        Researcher uses AI to unravel the mystery of Shakespeare's co-author    
Stay tuned with our weekly recap of what’s hot & cool by our CEO Boris.
        Join over 260,000 subscribers!
    
                Sit back and let the hottest tech news come to you by the magic of electronic mail.
            
                Prefer to get the news as it happens? Follow us on social media.
            
1.76M followers
                        
1M likes
                        
                Got two minutes to spare? We'd love to know a bit more about our readers.
Start!

                All data collected in the survey is anonymous.
            