If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email, sign up to the Front Page newsletter here and try our Audio Briefings on WhatsApp.Within the hour, Boris Johnson is about to address an election rally in Coventry for his first major speech of the campaign. The latest will, of course, be in today's politics liveblog, which has also told how Jeremy Corbyn was accused of being a "terrorist sympathiser" by a Church of Scotland minister at his first event of the Scottish Labour campaign, where he announced a £77bn fund for spending on capital investment projects north of the border. Perhaps most significantly, Mr Corbyn has also ruled out a Scottish independence referendum in the first term of a Labour government. The SNP have, as you might expect, responded with disapproval. If you are starting to struggle to keep up with what all the parties are promising, Daniel Capurro and Tony Diver have this manifesto watch piece, which will be updated throughout the campaign.Opinion polls so far show the Conservatives have a healthy lead over their rivals, but with a host of pacts and local issues at play, the December vote is still seen as unpredictable. Ashley Kirk has put together a roundup of the marginal seatsto watch during the campaign. Ynys Mon is not one of them, where former MP Chris Davies has stood down as the Conservative candidate after coming under a fresh attack over his conviction for falsifying expenses. And are you wondering what an electoral pact is or what's the point of it? It might be worth signing up for The Refresher, a newsletter written by Amy Jones which explains the facts behind the week's big political stories, out every Wednesday.The first public hearings into Donald Trump's dealings with Ukraine have begun this afternoon, making him only the fourth president in US history to face impeachment. The hearings are being carried live by many of the country's major broadcasters, and millions of Americans are expected to tune in to watch the historic event unfold in Washington DC. First to testify is Bill Taylor, the US chargé d'affaires for Ukraine, followed by George Kent, deputy assistant secretary for European affairs at the State Department. Here are five key peoplein the impeachment hearings and Rozina Sabur explains everything you need to know about the inquiry. Click here for live updates from the proceedings.He has long been considered a stylish upholder of traditional Savile Row tailoring and has appeared on numerous international Best Dressed Lists. Yet the Prince of Wales has, thus far, left the mercurial business of fashion to other members of his family. That changed today, however, with the launch of a new and unique project that will see His Royal Highness combining forces with a global online fashion retailer to produce a capsule collection for both men and women. Here is the story behind his new luxurious fashion label.We are continuing to celebrate how The Telegraph pioneered online news 25 years ago, as it became the first newspaper in Europe to launch a website. A watershed moment in media history, it ushered in a new digital era. To celebrate our birthday, we are giving readers free access to articles usually only accessible to subscribers for 25 hours - until 7am tomorrow. Here is how it all started and look at The Telegraph's 25 biggest stories in our first quarter of a century online.Venice has been hit by the highest tide in more than 50 years, with tourists wading through flooded streets to seek shelter as a fierce wind whipped up waves in St. Mark's Square. The exceptionally intense "acqua alta", or high waters, peaked at 1.87 metres (six feet). Only once since records began in 1923 has the water crept even higher, reaching 1.94 metres in 1966. Video shows tourists wading through the water and a man swimming in St. Mark's Square.Palestinians fire rockets | Benjamin Netanyahu has warned Israelis to brace for prolonged fighting as Palestinian factions in Gaza fired barrages of rockets in retaliation for Israel's assassination of a senior Islamic Jihad commander. The most serious escalation in six months began early Tuesday when Israeli warplanes targeted Baha Abu al-Ata, the military commander of the Iranian-backed Islamic Jihad group in Gaza. The 42-year-old militant and his wife were both killed in the strike. Islamic Jihad vowed it would go to war to avenge the attacks on its leaders and Palestinian factions quickly began filling the skies above southern Israel with rockets. Watch footage of the outbreak of fighting.Gigafactory launch | Tesla will build its first European factory in Berlin, chief executive Elon Musk has announced. The electric car company's fourth "gigafactory" will be built on the outskirts of the German capital, Mr Musk confirmed at an awards ceremony in the country. Details here. And here is why Mr Musk said he decided against building the plant in Britain.Sterling and Gomez | Most people nearby initially thought the Manchester City midfielder was joking. Sam Wallace and Matt Law have the inside storyon how England team-mates Raheem Sterling and Joe Gomez came to blows - and the steps taken to limit any long-term damage to the squad.Underrated artist | A Durham miner who was snubbed by the fickle art world was as good as Rembrandt, a historian has said, ahead of his biggest exhibition, put on to celebrate the centenery of his birth. The work of Norman Cornish is well-known in the North East, as he accurately captured the life of a working man in a mining town in County Durham last century. Yet historians argue he failed to achieve the global acclaim he deserved. See some of his pieces here.© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2019We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.Thank you for your support.Need help?Visit our adblocking instructions
page.