By Tim Stickings For Mailonline and Afp  Published:  05:17 EST, 13 November 2019   |  Updated:  07:50 EST, 13 November 2019    1.7kView  commentsTesla's European car factory will be based in Germany, founder Elon Musk has announced as he blamed Brexit uncertainty for not choosing Britain. The so-called 'Gigafactory' near Berlin is expected to open its doors by 2021, producing electric cars including Tesla's latest Model Y SUV. Musk claimed that the uncertainty caused by Brexit made it 'too risky' to build the factory in the UK - a comment set to infuriate the British business community.Better than expected figures released this week showed that GDP increased by 0.3% between July and September in a major boost for Boris Johnson as he seeks to win a solid majority at the December 12 election.  Announcement: Tesla founder Elon Musk, pictured at a motoring award ceremony in Berlin last night, has announced that the company's new Gigafactory will be based in Germany Elon Musk is currently embroiled in a bizarre legal row with a British cave diver whom he infamously labelled 'pedo guy' during the Thai cave rescue in 2018. Vernon Unsworth had dismissed Musk's offer of a submarine after the young football team was trapped, prompting an angry response from the Tesla founder. In court papers Musk has claimed that the phrase 'pedo' is 'aimed at mocking a person's appearance and demeanor, not an accusation of pedophilia'. The embattled Tesla founder filed court documents on Monday asking that a judge allow him to challenge some of the claims made by Mr Unsworth as they two head towards a trial next month.Musk also writes that he will present 'evidence that Mr Unsworth filed this lawsuit motivated by fame and pecuniary gain, and not because he actually suffered emotional or reputational harm.'Musk also paid $20million to the US government over alleged securities fraud after claiming he had secured funding to take the company private.  Musk's plant will be Tesla's fourth Gigafactory, adding to its existing sites in Nevada and New York and another one which is nearing completion in Shanghai. It will also be within reach of Berlin's much-derided new airport, which has yet to open after years of delays. Musk made the announcement at Germany's Golden Steering Wheel awards last night.  'Everyone knows that German engineering is outstanding and that's part of the reason we are locating our Gigafactory Europe in Germany,' he said on stage. 'We are also going to create an engineering and design center in Berlin because I think Berlin has some of the best art in the world,' he said. Speaking to Auto Express, the maverick entrepreneur revealed that 'Brexit [uncertainty] made it too risky' to put a Gigafactory in the UK.  Musk announced plans for a UK-based research centre as long ago as 2014 but those plans have since been shelved. Brexiteers have long hoped that Germany's auto industry would put pressure on Merkel's government to give Britain favourable terms in a trade deal. However, industry chiefs have largely backed the German government's insistence on keeping the single market intact. Shadow business secretary Rebecca Long-Bailey accused the Government of 'scuppering the UK's automotive industry'.'Only today Tesla has announced that it won't be building a gigafactory in the UK because of Johnson's 'risky' sell-out Brexit. 'Honda and Ford have already announced plant closures and both Nissan and Vauxhall have warned that the introduction of tariffs would jeopardise their European production.'  Tesla is estimated to have some 30 per cent of the European market for battery-powered cars.Musk unveiled the Model Y all-electric SUV in California earlier this year and has promised to build the car at the German plant along with batteries and powertrains.The 48-year-old reportedly hopes to begin European production by 2021. Tesla has already started hiring for engineering and construction posts in the German factory, according to job postings on its website.  Product: The so-called 'Gigafactory' near Berlin is expected to open its doors by 2021, making electric cars including Tesla's latest Model Y SUV (pictured)Officials in Germany hope the plant could create as many as 7,000 jobs in production with many more in research and design. Musk also joked that the factory would need to get started more efficiently than the nearby Berlin-Brandenburg Airport has done. The airport was due to open to passengers in June 2012, but still has not opened after a disastrous series of delays and construction problems.  'We definitely need to move faster than the airport, that's for sure,' said Musk. Predecessor: The plant will be Tesla's fourth Gigafactory, adding to its existing sites in Nevada and New York and another one which is nearing completion in Shanghai (pictured) While much of Germany's car industry is based in the south, Berlin has become a hub for tech start-ups since the fall of the Wall 30 years ago.  The premier of the state of Brandenburg, which surrounds Berlin, said Tesla was 'coming with a big investment'. 'We lobbied for this for a long time in intensive talks and with good arguments,' said Dietmar Woidke.   
	    Share what you think
          The comments below have not been moderated.
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
    By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual. Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual  We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook.You can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our Privacy Policy.Published by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group