By Charles Bethea5:00 A.M.Midway through an introductory session in the modest office of Mighty Prep tutoring, in Studio City, Los Angeles, Patrick Cunningham handed a high-school junior, named Jolie, a large packet of tea. “This is preppermint tea,” Cunningham said, professorially. He wore a pink polo with the collar popped and bore a striking resemblance to a miniature Conan O’Brien. “A private blend of peppermint,” he added. “It’s nature’s Adderall.”Jolie, who wore green jeans, Doc Martens, and a look of mild confusion, opened the packet and took a whiff. “Oh, wow,” she said.“Right!” Cunningham said. “It’s from the Willamette Valley, in Oregon.”Jolie had a 4.4 weighted G.P.A. at a prestigious private high school, but her most recent ACT score was in the sixty-ninth percentile, a possible concern for admittance to Amherst, one of her target schools.“What’s the point of it, though?” Jolie asked about the tea.“There is a modest but growing amount of evidence that it will help you concentrate,” Cunningham said.Next, he presented Jolie with “a test-scoring 100 pencil from the Musgrave Pencil Company, of Shelbyville, Tennessee,” which, he explained, was “developed in tandem with I.B.M. when they were developing their scanning machine” that grades standardized tests. (“The lead,” he said, “actually shows up better than the No. 2.”) Finally, he handed her some stickers bearing a cartoon of his face. The daughter of the Tears for Fears front man Curt Smith—also a client—had designed them. (“I don’t think my eyes are that far apart in real life,” Cunningham noted, “but she got the teeth.”)“Rep the Prep!” he exhorted Jolie.Cunningham is a thirty-seven-year-old Princeton graduate and Marshall Scholar, with graduate degrees in literature and filmmaking. He offers individual test prep for about three hundred dollars per session—more than he earned as a game-show writer when he first moved to L.A. “It pays my mortgage,” he said. “And I only work a few hours most days.” He sees a couple of students every day. “The kids of Coachella headliners,” he said. “Kids in baronial homes. And the über-rich.” He “shared a family,” he said, with Rick Singer, the orchestrator of this year’s college-admissions scandal, which turned the actress Felicity Huffman into a convicted felon. “That’s the world I tutor in,” he said. “The moms do the marketing for you.”Jolie hoped to score a 30 on the ACT. “I’ve met Nobel Prize winners,” Cunningham told her. “I’ve never met a genius. I’ve just met hard workers.” She nodded. Then Cunningham photographed her holding a small whiteboard with the date, her name, and the material covered that day. (“For my accounting assistant,” he explained).The next afternoon, he was headed to a palatial, “two Tesla” home, in Sherman Oaks, to meet with Jed, a junior at another private high school. (Jed also has a tutor for A.P. chem.) Cunningham tutored Jed’s older siblings, too. “The family has paid me thousands,” he said. It was algebra day, and the “eve of battle,” as Cunningham put it, for the December ACT. Wearing sweatpants and a hoodie emblazoned with the name of his school’s basketball team, Jed slumped in the dining room, at a large table, his Louis Vuitton key holder sitting beside his pencils. On the walls hung an eclectic collection of art work, including what looked like a Picasso above the mantel. Jed said that he thought his mother had painted it. A visitor suggested otherwise.“Mom!” Jed yelled up toward the second floor. “Is this a Picasso?”“What?” his mother yelled back down.“Is this painting in here a Picasso?”“Over the fireplace?”“Yeah.”Jed shrugged. He and Cunningham continued his algebra lesson, under the beatific gaze of Cunningham’s miniature “test-prep Buddha.” Jed rushed through a problem, and Cunningham clucked that his mistakes were “due to executive functioning.” Cunningham added, in a singsong voice, “Before we cry, we . . .”“Simplify,” Jed said.“If the ACT had a back tattoo of just one equation,” Cunningham said, “what would it be?” He supplied the answer himself: “The-difference-of-squares identity.”Toward the end of the session, Cunningham handed Jed a tube of something called “brain balm.”“It smells like essential oils,” Jed said, smearing it on his lips.“Spearmint-forward,” Cunningham noted.“I’ve used the tea, like, once or twice,” Jed said. “I’m not much of a tea guy.”Charles Bethea is a staff writer at The New Yorker.Never miss a big New Yorker story again. Sign up for This Week’s Issue and get an e-mail every week with the stories you have to read.By Meghan O’RourkeBy Alexandra SchwartzBy Kameron Austin CollinsBy Rachel SymeBy Alec MacGillisBy Elizabeth KolbertBy Tyler FoggattBy Meghan O’RourkeBy Alexandra Schwartz