More China Evergrande Group, the property giant with ambitions to become the world’s biggest maker of electric vehicles, plans to unveil its debut car by June, a year later than first promised.The car, to be sold under the ‘Hengchi’ brand, will debut in the first half of next year, with mass production starting in 2021, the company said in a statement late Tuesday.Evergrande, which has spent more than $3.6 billion since late last year on an array of EV-related companies and pledged to invest billions more, had promised to deliver its first ‘pure battery’ car by June this year, but instead unveiled a model car under a Swedish subsidiary.China’s biggest property developer by revenue has branched out into a suite of businesses from soccer to healthcare. At a deal-signing event on Tuesday, Chairman Hui Ka Yan said the company still aims to become the world’s biggest maker of EVs, and it had to move fast despite a lack of technology and experience.“For core technology and companies available to be purchased, we’ll buy them all,” Hui told more than 200 potential partners in Guangzhou, according to a webcast of the event. “For those we couldn’t buy, we’d like to join hands with them through cooperation.”Hui, China’s third-richest man with an estimated wealth of $26.7 billion, earlier this year said Evergrande “will strive to become the world’s biggest, and the strongest, electric vehicle group within three to five years.” Not only does that pit him against Elon Musk’s Tesla Inc., which has been churning out EVs for years, but also all the world’s major automakers, which are plowing tens of billions of dollars into EV production and research.Evergrande will also be entering a crowded local field, at a time sales are slumping as the government reduces subsidies.Warren Buffett-backed BYD Co, the world’s biggest maker of new energy vehicles, last month reported an 89 per cent slump in third-quarter earnings and warned profit could fall as much as 43 per cent this year. BAIC BluePark New Energy Technology Co. also forecast a 2019 loss in a grim earnings update.Meantime, Tesla has completed its new factory near Shanghai and is nearing the launch of China-made models. Undeterred, Evergrande said it’s sticking to a long-term production-capacity of 5 million vehicles a year. Annual sales of passenger EVs in China only surpassed 1 million units for the first time last year, according to BNEF.Evergrande signed cooperation agreements with about 60 parts makers on Tuesday, according to the statement. It’s now developing 15 models, ranging from mid-level to ultra-luxury cars, Hui said, according to the webcast. It also plans to build 10 car plants in China, Sweden and other One Belt, One Road countries to expand production and lower costs. Evergrande already has production bases in Tianjin, Shenyang, Shanghai and Guangzhou.Flight Operations Inspector (FOI): Representative of the Civil Aviation Authority in charge of initial ...Billed the world’s lightest compact business convertible notebook, the Elite Dragonfly targets business users ...An aircraft leasing ecosystem has advantages but there are challenges too, say industry watchers. Ashwini ...As IndiGo and SpiceJet expand their global footprint, fliers get more destinations to fly to at lower cost Taking negative cues from the Asian markets, the Sensex and the Nifty started the session in red. But, ...Investors may wait for temporary headwinds to play out before taking fresh positionsExpected pick-up in demand and cost benefits, among others, will help the firm improve earningsOn April 1, four years back, piqued by the incessant jokes in the village at his expense, Bandu Barve decided ...Noise is the default backdrop setting to the modern world and its pervasiveness has placed silence on a ...Members of a remote nunnery in Nepal have been learning and spreading the word on self-defence in villages and ...We dig for the truth. So you don't have to On November 9, 52 years ago, the first issue of the iconic Rolling Stone was published. What follows is a quiz ...In its 25th year, Ferns N Petals has a bouquet of nine verticals but is betting on weddings for growthAre slowdown blues making consumers burn more points?Trust in advertising is at its lowest ebb, says Terry Peigh of IPG Each of us can build our own imprintOn a hot summer afternoon, the Mumbai Branch of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) was jam-packed with a ...Not long ago, India Inc. and banks were pinning high hopes from the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (IBC) ...Distraught staff of Jet Airways and IL&FS feel that the bankruptcy apparatus is not concerned about what is ...Cooperatives have played a key role in creating a set of socio-economic institutions in the State. Earlier ...
Which is the right balanced fund for you? Subscribe to The Hindu BusinessLine to read more and understand from our trusted experts.	
Avail Invitation Pricing Now
. Offer closes soon.More

Companies


TRENDING TODAY

TRENDING THIS WEEK

LATEST NEWS

SECTIONS

GROUP TOP TRENDS

The Hindu

Sportstar
Support The Hindu BusinessLine's new online ad-free experience by subscribing now.Already a user? Sign In