By Jerry Barmash For Dailymail.com  Published:  22:09 EST, 12 November 2019   |  Updated:  03:23 EST, 13 November 2019    103View  commentsA Tesla owner posted shocking video of his car becoming engulfed in a fireball, the latest incidence of blazes coming from the electric cars. Ben Wood, from Chester, England, posted the scary clip on his Twitter account this morning, accompanied with the caption: 'I love you @ElonMusk, but being woken up by our Tesla on flames isn’t a nice way to start a day!!' He added: 'I've no idea what caused it, but the fact that this can happen on a legally sold car is mind blowing. Could have been so much worse, imagine if it was in a garage.'  Wood later tweeted it was a Model X from 2017 that was charging, but 'the fire was at the front of the car'. One person challenged Wood's rationale for still loving the billionaire automaker. 'I just like what he’s doing for the world, obviously I don’t like our car blowing up in the middle of the night,' Wood tweeted. He shared a follow-up photo to Musk showing the vehicle completely destroyed.   The tweet says it all. Tesla owner Ben Wood woke up to find his Model X vehicle in flames Wood was greeted Tuesday morning by the blaze which left the vehicle completely destroyedWoods shared a follow-up photo to Musk showing the vehicle completely destroyed In April, a Tesla Model S spontaneously combusted in a Shanghai parking lot. Musk tried to play down on the controversy in April tweeting: 'Over a million combustion engine (it’s right there in the name!) car fires per year & thousands of deaths, but one Tesla car fire with no injuries gets biggest headlines. Why the double standard? This is a real question.'Reality is a Tesla, like most electric cars, is over 500% less likely to catch fire than combustion engine cars, which carry massive amounts of highly flammable fuel. Why is this never mentioned?'  Firefighters work to get the raging Tesla fire under control on a Tesla car. No one was in the vehicleTesla CEO Elon Musk has come under scrutiny for safety with his electric carsWood (pictured) posted the scary clip on his Twitter account this morning, accompanied with the caption: 'I love you @ElonMusk, but being woken up by our Tesla on flames isn’t a nice way to start a day!!' Musk's Tesla is facing scrutiny for two models - Model S and Model X - over battery concerns. Last month, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) began an investigation in battery management system and a defect that could lead to non-crash fires.They were looking into the Model S the 2000 version and X EVs from 2012 to 2019, Car and Driver reported. It was brought to the attention of the NHTSA by a petitioner, who claimed the federal agency should have announced a recall.Tesla's fix for the problem, according to the petitioner, reduced the amount of a miles to the charge for the electric-based vehicles.  The automaker also has gotten flak about its driver-less option.   There have been numerous videos posted to social media in recent months showing the Summon model having issues without a driver. Some videos show the models crashing into cars, stopping in middle of a lane and blocking traffic or driving on to lawns. 'We are in an ongoing contact with the company and we continue to gather information. Safety is NHTSA's top priority and the agency will not hesitate to act if it finds evidence of a safety-related defect,' the NHTSA told Reuters. Starting price for the Tesla Model X is $81,000. The Model S starting list price is $75,000. Despite the problems Tesla has not been a target on Wall Street, where the stock jumped 1.4 percent Tuesday on the Nasdaq, or 4.8 points, to $350 a share.   Published by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group