
                  Tesla and SolarCity had a combined $3.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of June 30. PHOTO: REUTERS.               Tesla’s Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk said on Tuesday the electric car maker is going to build a new vehicle factory, “Gigafactory 4,” in the “Berlin area.”Tesla delivers record number of electric carsTesla had earlier said it will soon reveal the location of a European Gigafactory for production in 2021.Musk, in an awards ceremony in Germany, said the factory will be near the new Berlin airport, adding it will also create an engineering and design center in the city.Tesla owner lawsuit claims software update fraudulently cut battery capacityIn October, Reuters reported that the automaker is aiming to start production for its gigafactory in China amid uncertainties around orders, labor and suppliers.China has been steadily rolling back subsidies on new energy vehiclesThe speculation about buying a stake in Tesla made by Manager Magazin is without meritThe starting price for the Model X sport utility vehicle was now $114,186 compared with 790,900 yuan previously

        Name (required) 



        Email         



        Location        

Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.

Notify me of followup comments via e-mail



		 Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ.
	 Comic Wisdom - by Sabir Nazar (November 2019)Comic Wisdom - by Sabir Nazar (October 2019)A peek at the mountains in Pakistan's northern areasComic Wisdom - by Sabir Nazar (September 2019)More in Technology
			This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
			Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2019 The Express Tribune.
Technical feedback? webmaster@tribune.com.pk
