The funding will be used to back the upcoming launch of its electric P7 sedan.
                                               By Cyrus Lee
                
                            
            
                                                        |                November 13, 2019 -- 04:48 GMT (20:48 PST)
            
                                                                                                            | Topic: Mobility
Chinese electric vehicle (EV) maker, Xpeng Motors, announced it has raised $400 million in the latest round of financing, which included a new strategic investor -- China's budget smartphone brand Xiaomi. Local startup Xpeng, backed by Alibaba and Foxconn and seen as a rival to Tesla in China, will work with Xiaomi to develop technologies to connect smartphones with vehicles, according to a statement posted on the company's website on Wednesday. While Xiaomi's founder Lei Jun said the two companies want to achieve significant progress on smart vehicles research and development, he added that Xiaomi's strategic investment in the EV startup is also aimed at advancing innovation for intelligent hardware and the Internet of Things. He Xiaopeng, the founder of Xpeng, also took part in the latest Series C funding round, according to the statement. Xpeng's first production model, the G3 2019 SUV, started shipping out to consumers in late 2018 and began being mass delivered in March. Since its release, 10,000 units of the G3 2019 SUV   has been shipped as of June 18, according to the EV startup. The Chinese startup also aims to use the fresh funding to back the upcoming launch of its electric P7 sedan, which is reportedly expected to be ready for market in the second quarter of next year. Xpeng's latest funding comes at a time when the Chinese government has been reducing subsidies to EVs in China, after a whopping 210 billion yuan ($30 billion) worth of subsidies has been spent over the past decade, according to a Chinese report in March.  Last week, Tesla posted images of the first Model 3 cars assembled by its Shanghai Gigafactory 3, its first manufacturing plant outside the US. The Chinese-produced Model 3s are expected to be shipped to Chinese consumers in the first quarter of 2020. Tesla China-made vehicles expected in September: ReportTesla has reportedly sent out a dozen of its US-based staff members to its Shanghai plant to speed up the completion of its manufacturing base in China.How Tesla's flash storage fail may lead to expensive repair billsFor a company that prides itself on its computer expertise, Tesla's rookie mistake on flash storage is hard to fathom. But not impossible. Here's how it screwed up.Tesla's mystery pickup: Electric cybertruck unveiled on November 21, says Elon MuskTwo years after teasing the idea of a Tesla pickup truck, the company will unveil it later this month.Why 5G is a crucial technology for autonomous vehiclesIn a future where self-driving cars are ubiquitous, autonomous vehicles could be safer on roadways than human drivers. However, we're still a long way from that future.Demand for still-strong autonomous vehicle jobs dips for the first time since 2015 (TechRepublic)Job postings increased by 833%, searches by 450%, but need appears to have stabilized.InnovationChina’s Didi Chuxing resumes Hitch services despite past controversy5GChina officially launches 5G networks on November 1SecurityWeChat and Alipay disable Samsung fingerprint payment optionTech IndustryTikTok hires legal experts for content moderation amid censorship concerns
Apple's Macs are better than PCs, says IBM? Well, of course

									
																																																														It
																																																								seems
																																																								that
																																																								IBM
																																																								employees
																																																								who
																																																								use
																																																								Macs
																																																								are
																																																								considerably
																																																								more
																																																								productive
																																																								than
																																																								those
																																																								who
																																																								use
																																																								PCs.
																																																								This
																																																								has
																																																								to
																																																								be
																																																								true.
																																																								Then
																																																								again,
																																																								there's
																																																								one
																																																								finding
																																																								from
																																																								this
																																																								study
																																																								that
																																																								is
																																																								even
																																																								more
																																																																...
																	
Best Target Black Friday 2019 deals

									
																			We combed through Target's Black Friday 2019 ad and found the best tech deals from its sale
																	
iPhone privacy: We accessed your phone's camera but it was a 'bug', says Facebook

									
																			Facebook says it has submitted a fix for an iOS app bug that opened the iPhone camera in the background.
																	
Fujitsu Tablet Stylistic Q509 review: Lightweight, rugged and versatile


Best Costco Black Friday 2019 deals

									
																			We combed through Costco's Black Friday 2019 ad and found the best tech deals from its sale.
																	
Best BJ's Wholesale Black Friday 2019 deals

									
																			We combed through BJ's Black Friday 2019 ad and found the best tech deals from its sale.
																	
Microsoft aims to streamline its device-management strategy with Endpoint Manager

									
																			Microsoft Endpoint Manager is a new brand and bundle which encompasses both ConfigMgr and Intune, along with other products and services.
																	
The /e/ Google-free, pro-privacy Android phone runs well -- for a beta

									
																																																														Hate
																																																								Apple
																																																								lock-in?
																																																								Don't
																																																								want
																																																								to
																																																								have
																																																								Google
																																																								looking
																																																								over
																																																								your
																																																								shoulder?
																																																								Then,
																																																								you
																																																								may
																																																								want
																																																								to
																																																								consider
																																																								installing
																																																								the
																																																								Google-free
																																																								/e/
																																																								Android
																																																								fork
																																																								on
																																																								your
																																																								smartphone
																																																								or
																																																								even
																																																								buying
																																																																																																																															...
																	
COROS GPS sports watch update makes them track stars, new POD tracks run power and dynamics

									
																																																														COROS
																																																								is
																																																								known
																																																								for
																																																								providing
																																																								regular
																																																								updates
																																																								and
																																																								feature
																																																								improvements
																																																								to
																																																								its
																																																								competitive
																																																								GPS
																																																								sports
																																																								watches
																																																								and
																																																								the
																																																								latest
																																																								update
																																																								will
																																																								please
																																																								those
																																																								who
																																																								want
																																																								the
																																																								most
																																																								accurate
																																																								track
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																												...
																	© 2019 CBS Interactive. All rights reserved.
                    Privacy Policy |
                    Cookies |
                    Ad Choice |
                    Advertise |
                    Terms of Use |
                    Mobile User Agreement
