A New Zealand man was fortunate to be behind the wheel of a Tesla Model 3, which helped swerve out of the way of a family of ducks.A driver in the United Kingdom was unsure whether to risk his luck driving through a heavily flooded street or obey a "Do Not Cross" sign.Surfers were shocked when a large animal swam beneath them off the coast of Doheny State Beach in California.Real life politics meets quintessential daytime drama.They try to teach him a lesson, but he still wants to go.Contrary to what you believe, they do not dump it straight into the sea.We're going to guess that road safety was not the first among their concerns.Every day we send an email with the top videos from Digg.At one end of the spectrum, based on 2018 data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, physicians have a median salary of $200,890 in the United States. In contrast, waiters and waitresses have a median salary of $21,780.A roundup of the most interesting, thought-provoking and surprising questions that our favorite columnists addressed in recent days. It's the company's first long-range electric car, and the only other Ford vehicle to ever be called a Mustang — the latter of which already has people riled up.With Adobe Sign you can stop chasing down signatures and get documents signed in minutes — not days. We're going to guess that road safety was not the first among their concerns.A handoff to a running back, who tosses it to a wide receiver, who launches the ball downfield for a receiver who somehow pulls in a bobbling one-handed grab? That's some good college football. It was 2017, deep into summer, when a popular high school cheerleader from the nice side of town was charged with killing an infant."When he didn't recognize me at first, I was so heartbroken. The happiest moment of my life was when he finally figured out it was me."What happens when you simply can't pay your loans? It starts with a phone call.Airships are being seriously considered as a low-emission travel alternative to planes.In a game between Toronto Maple Leafs and Pittsburgh Penguins, the Leafs were destroyed by the Penguins and you can really tell from this guy's face.War. War never changes. Neither do the fundamentals of game development.McDonald's? Taco Bell? Wendy's? Which provides the healthiest bang for your literal buck?Enjoy the perks of true wireless headphones without breaking the bank! These headphones let you jam out to Spotify, Apple Music, and more completely wirelessly and are on sale now for just $97.Here's what those little black dots on the edge of your windows of your car are for.The new Netflix documentary "Bikram: Yogi, Guru, Predator" explores the sexual-assault allegations against Bikram Choudhury, the founder of Bikram Yoga.The Josh Hart curse has struck.Seven hundred pages of leaked documents reveal how Iranian spies have infiltrated every aspect of Iraqi political life.The actor will play a version of himself accepting $1 million to attend a superfan's party in "The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent."Creative director Jessica Fox breaks down the most famous movie trailer tropes.It was perhaps the boldest, most ostentatious and fabulous back door in the history of federal drug prosecutions.We've all heard the expression, but does it have any relation to reality?With Adobe Sign you can stop chasing down signatures and get documents signed in minutes — not days. What we view as objective reality is actually a subjective reality that we either unravel, create or dis-obfuscate by the simple act of observation.A fictional pirate and a pioneering ocean explorer helped chart my course as an oceanographer. This experience is surely going to traumatize him for life.For a bullied kid with weight issues, haute cuisine provided an escape.They try to teach him a lesson, but he still wants to go.Dismissed for decades as a copy, "The Madonna and Child" has now been reattributed, in part, to Botticelli.This game starts with three to six players getting stranded in a plane crash. Now, you all have to work together to survive. It only takes about 15 minutes to play a round, and it's suited for players ages 10 and up.33 Thomas Street in Lower Manhattan has fascinated New Yorkers for decades — here's what we know about it.Having a hard time eating healthy while away from home? Meet BlendJet One — the world's most powerful portable blender. We sent white, black, Hispanic and Asian testers undercover to see if they would be treated equally by Long Island real estate agents. Many were not.In the crypt of Venice's Basilica, sarcophagi are almost submerged. And it's not the first time.A struggling Hollywood actor got into the vape industry and hit paydirt with vitamin E oil. Then people started to get sick.The fast-food chain posted a recipe to its blog that calls for simmering its rolled chicken tacos in broth and pureeing it to make soup.Ten men were shot, four of them fatally, during what police say was "very likely" a targeted shooting during a backyard football watch party in Fresno, California.You can have your mayo and keep your mustard — butter is where it's at.The data would say no, but that doesn't mean people have stopped stealing from banks. They've just found a much more 21st-century way to do it.We keep hearing about the supposed dangers of shared e-scooters, but the numbers tell a different story.Earlier this year Richard Ma spent £7,500 on a dress for his wife. That is a lot of money for a dress, particularly when it does not exist, at least not in a physical form.Real life politics meets quintessential daytime drama.Facing declining birthrates and rural depopulation, hundreds of "marginal villages" could vanish in a few decades. But some small towns are fighting back.The Japanese animation group has produced some of the most critically acclaimed films of all time, from "Spirited Away" to "Howl's Moving Castle." We rank the best ones.Search and rescue teams train for the worst conditions. But the worst conditions are getting worse. Are they ready for the next big disaster?Riders have to jump horses in "the box," and this is where things can get messy. This film was directed by Alexandra Lazarowich.Yes, but modern farms deprive them of meaningful companionship.William Hughes was a buccaneer with an early recipe for "the American Nectar."While the idea of a "landlord influencer" might seem strange, it's a niche that's existed for decades.Even if you don't consider yourself an artist, this'll give you everything you need to master shading in life drawing.