By Glenn Garner For Dailymail.com  Published:  19:32 EST, 12 November 2019   |  Updated:  19:36 EST, 12 November 2019    55View  commentsMila Kunis and Ashton Kutcher don't like to spoil their kids, as they've divulged in the past.But even without Christmas presents to shop for, Kunis remains a busy mom on the go.She was spotted Tuesday sporting a makeup-free look as she ran errands in Los Angeles.Makeup free: Mila Kuniswas spotted Tuesday sporting a makeup-free look as she ran errands in Los AngelesThe 36-year-old donned a zipped-up puffy black jacket as she walked to her black Tesla.She kept the color scheme going, completing the look with a pair of skinny black jeans and black leather dress shoes.Kutcher, 41, recently revealed that they won't be leaving their kids an inheritance, as they already lead privileged lives.He told pal Dax Shepard during his podcast Armchair Expert: 'My kids are living a really privileged life, and they don稚 even know it. And they値l never know it, because this is the only one that they値l know.Winter vibes: The 36-year-old donned a zipped-up puffy black jacket as she walked to her black TeslaColor scheme: She kept the color scheme going, completing the look with a pair of skinny black jeans and black leather dress shoes'I知 not setting up a trust for them. We値l end up giving our money away to charity and to various things.'But he doesn't plan on cutting them off completely, as he instead wants to invest in them and their ideas.He added: 'I want them to be really resourceful. Hopefully they'll be motivated to have what they had, or some version of what they had.'Kunis has echoed that sentiment in the past, revealing that they've opted not to spoil their children.No inheritance: Hubby Ashton Kutcher, 41, recently revealed that they won't be leaving their kids an inheritance: 'My kids are living a really privileged life, and they don稚 even know it...I知 not setting up a trust for them. We値l end up giving our money away to charity and to various things'Good investment: But he doesn't plan on cutting them off completely, as he instead wants to invest in them and their ideas: 'I want them to be really resourceful. Hopefully they'll be motivated to have what they had, or some version of what they had'Simple Christmas: Kunis has echoed that sentiment in the past, revealing that they've opted not to spoil their children:'So far, our tradition is no presents for the kids'In 2017, she told ET: 'So far, our tradition is no presents for the kids. We're instituting it this year because when the kids are [younger than] one, it doesn't really matter.'Last year when we celebrated Christmas, Wyatt was two and it was too much. We didn't give her anything -- it was the grandparents. The kid no longer appreciates the one gift. They don't even know what they're expecting; they're just expecting stuff.'Kunis and Kutcher got married in July, 2015, and they share daughter Wyatt, five, and son Dimitri, two.The couple originally met when they played on-again, off-again couple Jackie Burkhart and Michael Kelson in That '70s Show, which ran from 1998 to 2006.Throwback: Kunis and Kutcher originally met when they played on-again, off-again couple Jackie Burkhart and Michael Kelson in That '70s Show, which ran from 1998 to 2006
	    Share what you think
          The comments below have not been moderated.
      The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
    By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual  We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We値l ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook.You can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our Privacy Policy.Published by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group