Sunshine and a few afternoon clouds. High around 40F. Winds NNE at 5 to 10 mph..Partly cloudy. Low near 20F. Winds light and variable. Updated: November 13, 2019 @ 5:55 amFILE- In this March 14, 2019, file photo Tesla CEO Elon Musk speaks before unveiling the Model Y at Tesla's design studio in Hawthorne, Calif. Tesla CEO Elon Musk says the electric car pioneer plans to build a new factory near Berlin. News agency dpa reported that Musk made the announcement during a prizegiving ceremony in the German capital Tuesday evening.FILE- In this March 14, 2019, file photo Tesla's Model Y is displayed at Tesla's design studio in Hawthorne, Calif. Tesla CEO Elon Musk says the electric car pioneer plans to build a new factory near Berlin. News agency dpa reported that Musk made the announcement during a prizegiving ceremony in the German capital Tuesday evening.FILE- In this March 14, 2019, file photo Tesla CEO Elon Musk speaks before unveiling the Model Y at Tesla's design studio in Hawthorne, Calif. Tesla CEO Elon Musk says the electric car pioneer plans to build a new factory near Berlin. News agency dpa reported that Musk made the announcement during a prizegiving ceremony in the German capital Tuesday evening.FILE- In this March 14, 2019, file photo Tesla's Model Y is displayed at Tesla's design studio in Hawthorne, Calif. Tesla CEO Elon Musk says the electric car pioneer plans to build a new factory near Berlin. News agency dpa reported that Musk made the announcement during a prizegiving ceremony in the German capital Tuesday evening.BERLIN (AP) — Tesla CEO Elon Musk says the electric car pioneer plans to build a new factory near Berlin.Musk said during an award ceremony in the German capital Tuesday evening that "we've decided to put the Tesla Giga factory Europe in the Berlin area."The company will also set up an engineering and design center in Berlin, Musk said at the Golden Steering Wheel event. He wrote on Twitter that the new plant "will build batteries, powertrains & vehicles, starting with Model Y."He said that the plan is for the factory to be built near Berlin's new airport, which is located just outside the city limits in neighboring Brandenburg state and currently slated to open next year after years of delays."We definitely need to move faster than the airport, that's for sure," Musk said.Regional officials in Berlin and Brandenburg welcomed the announcement, which comes as the German government tries to ramp up support for electric cars.German officials and auto industry leaders agreed last week to increase by half the existing government incentives for electric vehicles with a list price of 40,000 euros ($44,500).The subsidy will also be extended from the end of 2020 currently to the end of 2025, while the government and industry also agreed to aim for 50,000 publicly accessible charging stations nationwide by 2022.German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier hailed Tesla's announcement Wednesday as further evidence of Germany's attractiveness as an auto industry location. He called it "a milestone in the expansion of electric mobility and battery expertise."Last week, German automaker Volkswagen began mass production of its ID.3 electric car."I'm happy that Elon is, let's say, pulling us, but I think the German industry is really now strongly investing," said Volkswagen CEO Herbert Diess, speaking alongside Musk at Tuesday's event. "And we will keep you alert."Copyright 2019 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.Your comment has been submitted.ReportedThere was a problem reporting this.
Log In
Please keep it clean, turn off CAPS LOCK and don't threaten
anyone. Be truthful, nice and proactive. Comments cannot be edited
or deleted once posted. To flag a comment to the page
administrator, click “report” next to that comment.
Tree & Stump Removal Lot Clearing Brush Removal Topping & Trimming Insured Free Esti…Purcell Construction Custom Builder Hunter Purcell 804-972-2215 www.PurcellConstruction.Biz …Tree & Stump Removal Lot Clearing Brush Removal Topping & Trimming Insured Free Esti…Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.