More
File Photo of Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk.
   -  Reuters

File Photo of Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk.
   -  Reuters
 Tesla Inc Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk said on Tuesday the electric-car maker will build its first European factory as well as an engineering and design center in Berlin.By building a plant in Germany, Tesla will be able to add the ‘Made in Germany’ accolade. Berlin also has earmarked financial support for manufacturing electric car battery cells.Musk, in a tweet, said that Tesla will build batteries, powertrains and vehicles, starting with Model Y lower-priced sports utility vehicle at the Berlin factory.Last month, Tesla said it expected its European factory to start production in 2021. The carmaker is also gearing up to open its factory in Shanghai.Musk made the announcement about the Berlin plant at the Golden Steering Wheel awards ceremony in Germany. He said the factory will be near the new Berlin airport. Musk had said in June last year that Germany is the frontrunner for its first factory in Europe.“Tesla is coming to Brandenburg with a big investment,” Dietmar Woidke, state premier of Brandenburg, which surrounds Berlin, said in a statement. “We lobbied for this for a long time in intensive talks and with good arguments.”The company is yet to prove it can be consistently profitable. Tesla has said it expects to be cash flow positive, but faces big investments with the launch of new factories and development of products including a pickup truck and a semi-truck.Musk's appearance at the awards ceremony is another example of Tesla's efforts to co-opt marketing tactics employed by German manufacturers, which have a reputation for quality.Tesla, for instance, has tested its cars on the Nordschleife, the notorious northern loop of the Nuerburgring racing track, as a way to burnish the brand's reputation for reliability and sporting prowess.The company has an engineering firm in Pruem, Germany, that specializes in automated manufacturing systems for battery-making plants.In October, Reuters reported that Tesla is aiming to start production for its factory in China amid uncertainties around orders, labor and suppliers.Flight Operations Inspector (FOI): Representative of the Civil Aviation Authority in charge of initial ...Billed the world’s lightest compact business convertible notebook, the Elite Dragonfly targets business users ...An aircraft leasing ecosystem has advantages but there are challenges too, say industry watchers. Ashwini ...As IndiGo and SpiceJet expand their global footprint, fliers get more destinations to fly to at lower cost Taking negative cues from the Asian markets, the Sensex and the Nifty started the session in red. But, ...Investors may wait for temporary headwinds to play out before taking fresh positionsExpected pick-up in demand and cost benefits, among others, will help the firm improve earningsOn April 1, four years back, piqued by the incessant jokes in the village at his expense, Bandu Barve decided ...Noise is the default backdrop setting to the modern world and its pervasiveness has placed silence on a ...Members of a remote nunnery in Nepal have been learning and spreading the word on self-defence in villages and ...We dig for the truth. So you don't have to On November 9, 52 years ago, the first issue of the iconic Rolling Stone was published. What follows is a quiz ...In its 25th year, Ferns N Petals has a bouquet of nine verticals but is betting on weddings for growthAre slowdown blues making consumers burn more points?Trust in advertising is at its lowest ebb, says Terry Peigh of IPG Each of us can build our own imprintOn a hot summer afternoon, the Mumbai Branch of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) was jam-packed with a ...Not long ago, India Inc. and banks were pinning high hopes from the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (IBC) ...Distraught staff of Jet Airways and IL&FS feel that the bankruptcy apparatus is not concerned about what is ...Cooperatives have played a key role in creating a set of socio-economic institutions in the State. Earlier ...
Which is the right balanced fund for you? Subscribe to The Hindu BusinessLine to read more and understand from our trusted experts.	
Avail Invitation Pricing Now
. Offer closes soon.More

Companies


TRENDING TODAY

TRENDING THIS WEEK

LATEST NEWS

SECTIONS

GROUP TOP TRENDS

The Hindu

Sportstar
Support The Hindu BusinessLine's new online ad-free experience by subscribing now.Already a user? Sign In