Demand for the brittle, bluish metal skyrocketed this year, but not lithium. The latter metal’s global supply currently exceeds demand by about 5 percent, according to data from Canaccord Genuity.Â Reuters attributes the downfall in demand toÂ electric vehicle sales in China. The People’s Republic has been doing most of the heavy lifting when it comes to EVs. Government programs have encouraged both the production and purchase of EVs, making it their most-viable market. But China has backed off the subsidies in recent months, hoping to allow electric startups and customer preferences to stand on their own two legs, or fall. While automakers stayed put, customers have been leaving in droves.Â EV sales fell by nearly a third in September, making it the segment’s third consecutive monthly decline.Part of that is due to China’s souring economy, though the way the nation handled EV adoption also played a factor. Confusing emission laws, unevenly adopted between regions, spooked consumers away from the market. It’s also forced dealers to price less than predictably. A surplus of product forced heavy discounting over the summer, causing a momentary blip in sales.Â However, the country saw vehicle sales drop more than 12 percent in the first six months of 2019 and that looks to be the trend for the rest of this year.From Reuters:A global average of [lithium] prices is down more than 50 percent since the start of 2018, according to Benchmark Mineral Intelligence, a metals pricing provider that is hosting an EV supply chain conference this week in Los Angeles.Despite the weak data, analysts and executives expect a rosy future when they look out 10 years.Moores believes the high-grade lithium door will swing open in 2024, once more automakers begin manufacturing electric cars. Other analysts are less inclined to believe it’s smooth sailing from here.However, that’s a problem for tomorrow. Today’s lithium providersÂ are trying to cut costs and appease investors hungry to make money off the popularization of EVs and rapidly-multiplying consumer electronics. This could create more issues down the road as today’s solution becomes tomorrow’s headache.[Image:Â Sergii Chernov/Shutterstock]“much of the excess white metal on the market is for so-called technical grade, or the kind that goes into smaller consumer electronics such as stopwatches”Then we’re OK for the EVs, right?Implies that the Congo is the is the only source of Cobalt which is untrue. Furthermore, Poskey makes no mention of the fact that as part of cost reductions, battery makers have drastically reduced or eliminated cobalt from their batteries. https://www.thebalance.com/the-biggest-cobalt-producers-2339726Excess lithium? Maybe they could ingest a little to, you know, take the edge off things.If Bolivian lithium is easily mined… why is a German companies
involvement necessary one way or another?“why is a German companies involvement necessary”?Because of the white man’s burden.Bolivia needs money and has lithium; the world has money and needs lithium.
These factors have a way of outlasting current events and finding their own equilibrium.Question for the B & B:So what does this mean for battery recycling?
How does the price of mined lithium compare with recycled lithium?
Are all these cells going into the landfill or the recycle plant?Do lithium batteries ever actually die? They seem pretty good to me.Yes, they do die eventually, and one hopes they will all be recycled.  It’s physically not a problem to recycle them, but it’s not clear yet how the economics of it will work out.Lithium batteries particularly hate spending a long time fully charged or fully discharged.  They prefer to be used regularly, and ideally to stay in a band between about 40% and 80% charge.I set my Bolt to charge only to 90% of capacity, unless I know there’s going to be a long driving day, to extend battery lifespan.You can fully charge your car since the indicated capacity isn’t the actual capacity because battery management already works the way you describe. You’re just limiting yourself unnecessarilyDepends on the car.Check the owner’s manual for your manufacturer’s recommendation for the max everyday charge.The lithium situation reminds me of the history of uranium in the USA.   Most of the uranium for the Manhattan Project came from, what was then called, the Belgian Congo.  The same area where cobalt and copper are found in great quantities today.
After WWII the USA government policy was that having a domestic source of uranium was important for “national security”.  A much higher price was offered for uranium mined in the USA. Some people struck it rich, such as Charles Steen (who managed to lose his millions). Many uranium mines and refining mills were started. After about 20 years the government stopped paying the higher price for uranium and most of the mines closed when the price fell to world market.
I suspect a similar story will play out with lithium.  If the price gets “too” high, battery makers will find an alternative chemistry for their product.  Lithium batteries were unknown 40 years ago. The recharagable battery then was the NiCad.  Seen any of those lately?Those disused uranium mines are also a environmental problem on tribal land.Particularly the tailings piles with higher-than-normal uranium content.  Wind and rain tends to distribute the uranium dust around, to the detriment of the locals.And nobody with the resources to clean it up is willing to pay the bill.Quite accurate, Luke42.  There are numerous uranium tailings dumped in areas that will leach into rivers and streams when it rains or snows melt. Some of the largest ones, such as the one near Moab, Utah, millions have been expended to dig up and truck/train the stuff some miles north. Supposedly out of the Colorado river watershed. However radium and uranium have flowed down the Colorado for more than 60 years. California’s Imperial Valley, which is irrigated by the river, grows about 80% of the lettuce in the USA. It all has traces of radioactive metals.
Grand Junction Colorado had buildings where the concrete aggregate came from uranium mine tailings. Including a bank and its vault. That was some hot money.
Unfortunately it is more than a local problem.BTW  Most people throw lithium, and other batteries, in the trash. Regardless of any available recycling programs.
The trash hauler here regularly sends out an email asking people not to throw their old phones, computers, cordless tools, and battery operated toys in the trash. The message includes some photos of trash trucks on fire. The description is that something with a lithium battery got into the truck and when the load was compressed it was crushed and ignited.   Most people do not know or care if a device has a hazardous battery inside.  To them it’s now just a “brick” so in the trash, or out the car window, it goes.You must be logged in to post a comment.