Share this withEmailFacebookMessengerMessengerTwitterPinterestWhatsAppLinkedInCopy this linkThese are external links and will open in a new windowIf you want to get this briefing by email, sign up hereWith 29 days to go until the general election, Labour is laying out its spending plans for the NHS in England. If it wins, it is promising to spend £155bn a year on it by 2023-24 - £6bn more than the Conservatives set out over the same period in a plan published last year.But the Conservatives have responded that, as Labour wants to reduce the working week to 32 hours, this would eat into funding, because of the need to take on more staff. Here are 11 charts on why the NHS is an important battleground during the election.Brexit is also on the agenda today. Conservative leader Boris Johnson, who is promising to get it done by 31 January if he wins on 12 December, will say - in his first major speech of the campaign - that any more "groundhoggery" will damage the economy. But Labour argues the PM's deal with the EU is flawed and is promising another referendum. Read our guide to where the parties stand on Brexit.In other news, ex-cabinet minister David Gauke, whom Mr Johnson expelled from the Conservative parliamentary party, is standing as an independent. And the party has suspended a number of members over allegations of Islamophobic social media posts.The Green Party has said it would create a "carbon chancellor" to reduce emissions. The Liberal Democrats are proposing £500m for youth services to tackle knife crime. And the SNP says it is the only party that can "lock Boris Johnson out of Downing Street".A busy day, then. Get on top of it all using our really simple election guide.And follow all the latest events on our live page.The Army is being brought in to help areas of northern England hit by flooding. The PM says 100 personnel will go to South Yorkshire, following criticism from Labour and the Liberal Democrats, who said the situation should be declared a "national emergency".With more than 1,000 properties having been evacuated, what are the factors making the floods so damaging?Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morningWhat's it like to lose an election to Donald Trump? According to Hillary Clinton, she thinks "all the time" about what she might have done differently had she entered the White House. And, she adds, a lot of people are putting her under pressure to run again. But will she? Here's what Mrs Clinton says.At one point, Emma Brown was stealing thousands of pounds from her father, spending the money in her favourite restaurants. Driving her behaviour was a debilitating eating disorder that eventually cost Emma her life. "I probably single-handedly funded the development of restaurants in Cambridge," said her father Simon, half-jokingly. "She'd spend maybe £200 a day going from one to the other."No longer able to bear the financial burden of Emma's persistent spending, her parents eventually made a decision few could imagine having to make: going to the police about their child.Read the full articleOn the election, the Daily Mirror focuses on Labour's NHS plans, which it says will try to "repair the damage" caused by "a decade of Tory austerity". But the Times and the Daily Express lead on an opinion poll showing a 14-point lead for the Conservatives. Meanwhile, the Daily Mail marks the death of Lord Bramall, the former chief of the Armed Forces, who was falsely accused in 2014 of child sexual abuse, calling him a "hero who died without justice". And the Sun says the Duke and Duchess of Sussex will not be attending the Queen's traditional Christmas celebration at Sandringham.Trump impeachment hearing What to look out for as House Intelligence Committee meets Australia bushfires Pregnant firefighter "won't just stay behind"Carmaker's plans Tesla to build first European factory in BerlinBolivia crisis Jeanine Áñez declares herself interim presidentFireball Bright meteor spotted over American MidwestThe boy risking his life to collect plastic wasteWhy do we cheat on our partners?Why dad killed mum: Our family's secretSign up for a morning briefing direct to your phone09:30 The Office for National Statistics releases its consumer price index inflation figure for October.20:10 Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan holds a joint press conference at the White House with US counterpart Donald Trump.1979 The Times newspaper is published for the first time in nearly a year, after unions and management end a dispute over staffing levels and the introduction of new technology.If alien life exists in our solar system, it may look like this (National Geographic)When couples can't agree on surveillance in the home (Slate)Aerial yoga - I look like a buffoon. I feel incredible. And then I vomit (Guardian)How 'hurricane-proof' dome pods were swallowed up by Mother Nature (Daily Mail)The party says it would tax the "wealthiest" to cut hospital waiting times if it wins the election.Is Benjamin all that he seems?Sign up for our newsletter