
Wednesday 13 November 2019

By Associated Press Reporter

November 13 2019 11:17 AM

Tesla boss Elon Musk has said the electric car maker plans to build a new factory near Berlin.
During an award ceremony in the German capital, Mr Musk that “we’ve decided to put the Tesla Giga factory Europe in the Berlin area”.The company will also set up an engineering and design centre in Berlin, Mr Musk said at the Golden Steering Wheel event. He wrote on Twitter that the new plant “will build batteries, powertrains & vehicles, starting with Model Y”.He said that the plan is for the factory to be built near Berlin’s new airport, which is located just outside the city limits in neighbouring Brandenburg state and due to open next year after years of delays.“We definitely need to move faster than the airport, that’s for sure,” Mr Musk said.Regional officials in Berlin and Brandenburg welcomed the announcement, which comes as the German government tries to ramp up support for electric cars.German officials and auto industry leaders agreed last week to increase by half the existing government incentives for electric vehicles with a list price of 40,000 euros.The subsidy will also be extended from the end of 2020 to the end of 2025, while the government and industry also agreed to aim for 50,000 publicly accessible charging stations nationwide by 2022.Economy Minister Peter Altmaier hailed Tesla’s announcement as further evidence of Germany’s attractiveness as an auto industry location. He called it “a milestone in the expansion of electric mobility and battery expertise”.Last week, German car maker Volkswagen began mass production of its ID.3 electric car.“I’m happy that Elon is, let’s say, pulling us, but I think the German industry is really now strongly investing,” said Volkswagen CEO Herbert Diess, speaking alongside Mr Musk at Tuesday’s event. “And we will keep you alert.”
PA Media
By Associated Press Reporters The Dutch government is lowering the speed limit on motorways in a bid to cut emissions of nitrogen oxide.By Henry Saker-Clark, PA City Reporter Eddie Stobart has said that a major shareholder has made a £55 million bid to take majority ownership.By Henry Saker-Clark, PA City Reporter Meadowhall owner British Land saw almost £600 million slashed from the value of its retail property portfolio as it was struck by the current turmoil facing UK retailers.Today's news headlines, directly to your inbox every morning.

Sign Up

Meadowhall owner British Land saw almost £600... 
Investors will remain locked out of Neil Woodford’s... 
Tesla boss Elon Musk has said the electric car maker plans to build a new factory near... 
Hong Kong anti-government protesters... 
Israeli air strikes have killed more Islamic Jihad... 
Luxury handbag maker Mulberry has revealed widened half-year losses as fewer... 
Wizz Air said a supportive market had helped it fly through rising fuel costs and... 
Hundreds of car and truck drivers are stuck in a large traffic jam in north-eastern Spain... 
Housebuilder Taylor Wimpey has revealed demand remains strong for new homes... 
A cat has been put in “solitary confinement” by an... 
An Israeli driver has a lucky escape as a... 
Police have increased security around Hong Kong and its university... 
Prior to being caught on camera, the rare deer-like species hadn’t been seen by... 
Israel's Iron Dome defence system has shot... 
Police fired tear gas at protesters who... 
Footage appears to show a police officer... 
Australia's most populous state declared a... 
Dozens of homes have been evacuated after heavy rainfall turned roads... 
An ex-Labour MP has urged people to vote for... © Independent.ie 