Pretty amazing pull quote from this New York Times profile of Dr. Fiona Hill, former top US diplomat in Ukraine, who testified today in the impeachment hearings against Donald Trump.Excerpt:Dr. Hill, 54, had an unusual path to academia. The daughter of a coal miner and a midwife, she had a hardscrabble childhood in northeast England — a childhood that bred toughness, her friends say. Once, when she was 11, a boy in her class set one of her pigtails on fire while she was taking a test. She put the fire out with her hands, and finished the test. And she confirmed it today, live in the hearings!Sheryl Stohlberg's @nytimesworld profile of Dr. Hill is quoted by Rep. Jackie Spier. Yes, confirms Dr. Hill, it is true that a boy lit my hair on fire while I was taking a test at the age of 11, and that my response was to swat the fire out and finish taking the test.— Lisa Goldman (@lisang) November 21, 2019And it resulted in a BOWL HAIRCUT which still traumatizes her!Upon questioning from Speier, Hill confirms that at 11 years old, a boy set her pigtails on fire. She put out the fire and finished her test. She said she tells the story sometimes because: “It had some very unfortunate circumstances, my mother gave me a bowl haircut.”— Tal Kopan (@TalKopan) November 21, 2019More:Fiona Hill Viewed Serving Trump as Risky. Now She’s an Impeachment Witness. [nytimes.com, image: CSPAN]And, watch the hearings live on CSPAN, where you can also listen to the very sincere random people calling in between testimony live time to share their very random opinions. November 21, 2019
Impeachment Hearing with Fiona Hill and David HolmesThe House Intelligence Committee held its seventh open hearing of the impeachment inquiry into President Trump. Lawmakers heard testimony from Fiona Hill, a former National Security Council senior director for Europe and Russia, and David Holmes, an aide to the top U.S. diplomat in Ukraine. This is the first portion of the hearing, before the committee recessed for votes on the House floor.Impeachment history in the making. #ImpeachmentHearings— Heidi Przybyla (@HeidiNBC) November 21, 2019Fiona Hill's reaction to the end of Rep. Hunter's rant is pretty priceless. Q: Is there a question for Dr. Hill? Hunter: Mr. Holmes...<laughter> pic.twitter.com/Pq1nx6nI7SWatch $1bn or so go up in smoke on his way to 3-5%. ATTN Mike: ads@boingboing.net.The past two years have seen a tremendous shift in the public perception of capitalism and socialism, the character of philanthropy as reputation-laundry rather than generosity, and the nature of wealth as an indicator of sociopathy, not virtue or cleverness.		“Intelligence officials believe that one of the people the Kremlin relied on to spread disinformation about Ukrainian interference was Oleg V. Deripaska, a Russian oligarch who had ties to Mr. Manafort.”
“Craft” is a buzzword that gets thrown around a lot these days, but what does it actually mean? Sadly, it’s all too easy to fake craftsmanship when looks are all you have to go by. On the other hand, you know from the first cut whether you’re handling a good chef’s knife or not. And […]Wireless speakers have been out on the market for a while now, and while they’re popular, most people get them for convenience. Sure, it’s better than listening to music on your phone, but they don’t really carry the weight of an audiophile’s expectations. The VIZIO SP30-E0 SmartCast™ Crave Go™ Wireless Speaker is definitely out to […]We know that boutique baristas have introduced a lot of mad science when it comes to brewing, but believe us when we say there’s nothing like a good pour-over coffee. As brewing methods go, it’s not that complex but still not the kind of thing you can do (let’s say) at the office before work. […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support