"Saturday Night Live" recently returned for its 45th season and announced a few upcoming hosts and performers for this year. Among them are musicians Chance the Rapper and Harry Styles — both of whom will host and perform as the episode's musical guests.From Paul Simon to Dolly Parton to MC Hammer, here are all 33 musicians who've taken a crack at comedy in Studio 8H.The first time he appeared on the show was October 18, 1975 — the second episode ever of "SNL." He brought in multiple musical friends to help, including Art Garfunkel, Randy Newman, and Phoebe Snow.The "Graceland" singer returned the following season, on November 20, 1976. This time, he brought along George Harrison, and the two sang a memorable rendition of "Here Comes the Sun."The next two times he hosted were on May 10, 1986 during season 11, and December 19, 1987, in season 13.In total, Simon has had "four hosting stints, nine musical guest appearances, and six cameos," according to Vulture.Arnaz invited his son, Desi Arnaz, Jr., onstage to sing "Cuban Pete" and "Babalu." His son was just 23 years old at the time.Charles sang more than the now-typical two songs during this episode. He performed "I Can See Clearly Now," "What'd I Say," "Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin'" and a medley of "I Got a Woman," "I Believe to My Soul," "Them That Got," and "Hit the Road Jack".Zappa had already been the musical guest prior to his season four appearance, in which he took over hosting duties as well. He sang three songs: "Dancin' Fool," "The Meek Shall Inherit Nothing," and an instrumental version of the unreleased song "Rollo."According to Mental Floss, the rock star"lazily read from the cue cards and reminded viewers that he wasn't really trying." Former "SNL" star Don Novello even called Zappa's show "one of the worst ever."Harry hosted an episode during the ill-fated sixth season, which was helmed by Dick Ebersol, instead of creator Lorne Michaels.She hosted the episode five months before her first solo album, "KooKoo" would be released. Harry sang "Love TKO" and "Come Back Jonee."Arguably, Newton-John could equally be considered a musician and an actress, which distinguishes her from her predecessors on this list.The Australian songstress sang "Physical," "Make a Move on Me," and "Landslide."In a musical performance that would never fly today, Tomlin sang as Pervis Hawkins, a black R&B singer that's clearly modeled after black musicians like Luther Vandross and Marvin Gaye.Recently, Wonder made it publicly known that he'd return to the "SNL" stage once again if he could be the musical guest for Eddie Murphy's upcoming episode in December — the first time either will have been at Studio 8H in decades."He's a superstar. If he wants me to, I will do it," Wonder told TooFab.During his appearance, Wonder appeared alongside Murphy, who frequently impersonated him on the show. The two sang "My Cherie Amour" during the sketch. He also sang "Overjoyed" and "Go Home."The legendary stoner sang his songs "Blue Eyes" and "Partners After All," and also performed a duet with cast-member Victoria Jackson.Just a few months before she'd appear in "Steel Magnolias," the country icon dropped by Studio 8H to host an episode and to perform "Why'd You Come in Here Lookin' Like That," and "White Limozeen."Prior to this episode, Sting had appeared as solely the musical guest in a 1987 episode. This time, he took on the hosting gig as well, and performed "All This Time," "Mad About You" and a cover of the Jimi Hendrix Experience song, "Purple Haze."He'd return to host an episode in 1997, with Veruca Salt as the musical guest.The flamboyant rapper sang his smash hit "2 Legit 2 Quit," "This Is the Way We Roll," and his song recorded for "The Addams Family" movie, "Addams Groove." Christina Ricci and Jimmy Workman, who played Wednesday and Pugsley Addams respectively, were on hand to introduce it in character.Brooks' first episode during season 23 on February 28, 1998, went by as a pretty run-of-the-mill episode, and he sang "Two Piña Coladas."When he returned two seasons later on November 13, 1999, Brooks hosted the show as himself, but performed as his alt-rock alter ago, Chris Gaines. He performed a song from Gaines' album, "The Life of Chris Gaines," called "Way of the Girl."While Spears might not seem like the most obvious choice for sketch comedy, she certainly held her own during both episodes she hosted. During her May 13, 2000, episode she was part of the sketch in which Rachel Dratch and Jimmy Fallon's "Boston Teens" made their first appearance. She also sang "Oops!... I Did It Again," and "Don't Let Me Be the Last to Know."When she returned on February 2, 2002, she earned laughs in the "Inside Barbie's Dreamhouse" sketch alongside Amy Poehler. Her first performance, "I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman," was introduced by then-boyfriend, Justin Timberlake. She also sang "Boys."Lopez made her first appearance on the show on February 10, 2001, during season 26. According to the New York Daily News, Lopez was the first Hispanic person to host and perform.During her monologue, she brought her famous Versace Grammys dress out of retirement. She also sang "Love Don't Cost a Thing" and "Play."After a nine-year hiatus, she made an "SNL" comeback on February 27, 2010, during season 35, singing "Until It Beats No More" and "Starting Over."Besides his appearance with 'NSync, Timberlake made his "SNL" debut on October 11, 2003, during season 29. This episode saw the beginnings of the epic Justin Timberlake/Jimmy Fallon friendship, and it marked the debut of "The Barry Gibb Talk Show," which remains a staple of Timberlake's appearances on the show. He also sang "Rock Your Body," "Señorita," and "Cry Me a River."Three years later, in season 32 on December 16, 2006, Timberlake returned — and this time, won an Emmy for his troubles. The digital short, "D--- in a Box," went viral after the uncensored version was posted on YouTube. Besides that classic, he also performed "My Love" and "What Goes Around... Comes Around."Timberlake made it a threepeat on March 9, 2013, during season 38. Besides his third stint as a musical guest/host, it was also his fifth time hosting overall, with other members of "The Five-Timers Club" appearing during his monologue, including Tom Hanks, Martin Short, Chevy Chase, and Candice Bergen. Timberlake performed "Mirrors" and his collaboration with Jay-Z, "Suit & Tie," during which the rapper appeared on stage.Though she had performed as the musical guest before, Jackson showed off her comedic chops as the host in 2004. During her episode, she reprised her role from the '70s sitcom "Good Times," alongside former "SNL" cast member Tracy Morgan.She sang "All Nite (Don't Stop)" and "Strawberry Bounce."The rapper and actress was there promoting her 2004 film "Taxi," which co-starred "SNL" alum Jimmy Fallon, and her album "The Dana Owens Album," which was released the week prior.She performed "The Same Love That Made Me Laugh" and "Hard Times."Ludacris took his talents to Studio 8H right after his album "Release Therapy" debuted in September. The rapper performed "Money Maker" and "Runaway Love," during which Mary J. Blige appeared as well.Swift used her opportunity as a host to make jokes about what she was best known for in 2009: singing songs about her boyfriends and getting interrupted by Kanye West at the VMAs a few months prior.Besides her monologue song, she also performed "You Belong With Me" and "Untouchable."After 29 years away from 30 Rock, John made a triumphant return to the "SNL" stage in 2011. His episode attracted some big names, including cameos from Jake Gyllenhaal, Tom Hanks, Michael Caine, and Carmelo Anthony.The legendary singer performed alongside Leon Russell for two songs, "Hey Ahab" and "Monkey Suit." He also sang an encore performance of "The Bitch Is Back."Like Elton John before him, Jagger's presence at "SNL" brought in some big names: Jon Hamm, Steve Martin, the Foo Fighters, Arcade Fire, and Jeff Beck.His was a music-heavy episode. The Rolling Stones front-man performed "The Last Time" with Arcade Fire, a medley of "19th Nervous Breakdown" and "It's Only Rock 'n Roll (But I Like It)" with the Foo Fighters, and "Tea Party" alongside Jeff Beck.As it was Kristen Wiig's last episode, Arcade Fire also performed a medley of "She's a Rainbow" and "Ruby Tuesday" to honor the longtime cast member.Mars had appeared as the musical guest two years prior, but this marked the first time he took on hosting duties as well — and like many musicians, Mars chose to do a musical monologue.He also performed "Locked Out of Heaven" and "Young Girls."Bieber appeared on the show a few weeks after he released "Believe Acoustic," and he subsequently performed acoustic versions of "As Long As You Love Me" and "Nothing Like Us."Cyrus' first appearance on the show was during season 39, on October 5, 2013 — just over a month after her controversial appearance at the VMAs, which earned her backlash for twerking up against Robin Thicke. Of course, she poked fun at the outrage during the show's cold open.She went on to perform "Wrecking Ball" and an acoustic version of "We Can't Stop."Cyrus returned to "SNL" on October 3, 2015, for the season premiere of 41, with a radically different look. This time, she sang "Karen Don't Be Sad" and "The Twinkle Song," which brought her to tears.The native New Yorker's brought out R. Kelly for the performance of their song, "Do What U Want." (She has since apologized for working with him.) She also sang "Gypsy" from "Artpop."His first "SNL" hosting gig came during season 39 (a season heavy on double-duty hosts) on January 18, 2014. He performed a medley of his hits "Started from the Bottom" and "Trophies," and he sang his duet with Jhene Aiko, "From Time."Drake returned for season 41 on May 14, 2016. Chris Rock made a surprise appearance to introduce Drake's first performance, "One Dance." He also sang "Hype" — but the highlight of his episode was his sketch, "Drake's Beef," which poked fun at Drake's feud with Meek Mill.Two years before he'd earn the title of People's Sexiest Man Alive, Shelton called himself "a little troublemakin' cutie" during his monologue.The country star also sang "Neon Light" and "Boys 'Round Here."The singer also poked fun at her Nickelodeon roots alongside fellow Nick alum Kenan Thompson — and had a pretty cute interaction with future ex Pete Davidson — during her monologue.Besides her musical monologue, she also sang "Dangerous Woman" and "Be Alright."During his monologue, he reminisced on his failed "SNL" audition and confused at least a few people by ending it with the customary "Childish Gambino is here!"As his rapper alter ego, he performed "This Is America" and "Saturday," which were introduced by Daniel Kaluuya and Zoë Kravitz, respectively.Halsey gave a shout-out to her home state of New Jersey and praised the female comedians that came before her on the show during her short and sweet monologue.For her performances, she sang "Without Me" and "Eastside." Chance was previously a musical guest in 2016 and host in 2017, but he took on both responsibilities during this episode.Though plenty of people were talking about Jason Momoa's surprise appearance, the rapper held his own during the episode.Charmingly, he introduced himself in the third person before his first performance, "Zanies and Fools." He also got this summer's star, Megan Thee Stallion, to make an appearance during his performance of their song "Handsome."The "Lights Up" singer has performed four times on "SNL," once as a solo act and three times as part of One Direction — though he's always appeared in sketches, even when he was just a musical guest.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
