Myles Garrett swung Mason Rudolph's helmet at the quarterback in the final seconds of Thursday Night Football as a brawl broke out between the Cleveland Browns and Pittsburgh Steelers.If the #NFL watches what #Browns’ Myles Garrett did in slow motion, see ya in a few weeks. At least. pic.twitter.com/Q9pKpOYrK5Steelers players immediately came to Rudolph's defense, resulting in Maurkice Pouncey kicking Garrett in the head. Garrett and Pouncey were ejected, along with Browns defensive tackle Larry Ogunjobi, who also had a prominent role in the fight."I made a mistake," Garrett said after the game. "I lost my cool."The 2018 Pro Bowler added that he doesn't believe the incident overshadowed his team's 21-7 victory, though Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield suggested otherwise."It feels like we lost," Mayfield said.The second-year pivot appeared disgusted with Garrett's actions when asked about them on the field immediately after the game."It's inexcusable," he said. "Rivalry or not, we can't do that. That's kind of the history of what's been going on here lately, hurting yourself. That's endangering the other team. That's inexcusable, he knows that - I hope he does now."When asked about the length of a likely suspension, Browns head coach Freddie Kitchens told reporters he was unsure what to expect."I'm embarrassed," Kitchens said. "Myles is embarrassed. It's not good. ... I've never seen that in my life, so we'll wait and see."Garrett, who had one tackle in the game, came into Week 11 with 10 sacks and as a prime contender for the Defensive Player of the Year award."The reality is, he's going to get suspended, we don't know how long, and that hurts our team," Mayfield added on the field. "We can't do that, we can't continue to hurt this team. It's inexcusable."Steelers head coach Mike Tomlin was more diplomatic, saying of the melee, "I'll keep my thoughts to myself."Players from both teams said the incident wasn't the result of increased tensions from multiple helmet-to-helmet hits that took place earlier in the game.