Published: November 17, 2019 Updated: November 17, 2019 8:40 PM PST Filed Under:Let us take stock of these Vancouver Canucks.After 21 games, they sit third in the Pacific Division.Fourth-place Calgary actually have played one more game than the local heroes at present, so the Canucks are, truly, full value for their position.They’ve scored 10 more goals than they’ve conceded.Their power play remains one of the league’s better outfits. The penalty killing was never going to stay quite as dominant as they were when they burst out of the gates, but they’re still in the top 10.The goaltending has been a bit of a mixed bag, but if you were told in the summer that the Canucks would be playing entertaining hockey and getting enough results to put themselves into a 50/50 position for a playoff push, you’d be pretty impressed.As it stands, this is a team that does look like it can score its way out of problems. Saturday’s tilt with the Colorado Avalanche may have finished up as an overtime loss, but once again the Canucks’ offence pulled off some heroics.Goals give you chances.“That game tonight, it’s going to help us,” Sven Baertschi said of his club, who now head out on a six-game road trip, the longest of the season, one that features plenty of tough opposition and, if it goes disastrously right or disastrously wrong, could prove to be season defining.“Coming back against them tonight and our big guys, I thought they really stepped up and that’s going to give you some confidence,” Baertschi added. “Getting that point tonight, it was important for us, you know. We’d probably go on the road right now with a little bit of a different feeling if we would’ve lost in regulation tonight, but I thought the effort was good at the end.”It’s a big road trip. The Canucks have just one win in their last seven games.Still, if they can play .500 hockey between now and Christmas, they’ll be setting themselves up well for the second half.

Marc-Andre Fleury and the Golden Knights aren’t currently in a playoff spot.
The West is getting so tight.Huge win for the Sharks. 6 straight wins for them.The Jets, who we’ve all been saying are in trouble because of the turnover on defence coupled with the loss of Dustin Byfuglien, are still sitting third in the Central.The Stars and Flames are in the two wild-card spots, with the likes of Anaheim, Nashville, San Jose and Vegas nipping at their heels.Heck, even Chicago, who looked very good in overcoming a solid road performance by the Canucks 10 days ago, are in the mix.The West is going to be a street fight, complete with chains, tridents, homemade street batons and worse.According to Micah Blake McCurdy’s projection system at HockeyViz.com, the Canucks came into Saturday with a 44 per cent chance of making the playoffs.Before the season, the chances were roughly one in five. Just a couple weeks ago, they were above 60 per cent.Life moves fast.

Vancouver Canucks #43 Quinn Hughes looks for the puck behind Colorado Avalanche #11 Matt Calvert at Rogers Arena, Vancouver, November 16 2019.

Gerry Kahrmann /  

PNG
LISTEN: The latest edition of the White Towel podcast is super-sized: Host Paul Chapman is joined by Canucks beat writers Patrick Johnston and Ben Kuzma plus columnist Ed Willes. The quartet take a look at Quinn Hughes’ ongoing growth as an NHL defenceman, the fact the Canucks keep scoring in buckets and the pressures they’re going to face on a big road trip to close November.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:via Apple podcasts  | via TuneIn  | via Spotify  | via StitcherIs the player not working? Click here.Little differences are everything in hockey. It’s a bit of a proverb among hockey people that everyone “plays the same way.”That may be about the general principles of the modern NHL, one that recognizes the best way to beat a defender is to pass the puck past him, which has all but eliminated the idea of finishing one’s check and also altered the idea of chip-and-chase hockey into a much more strategic way of thinking.But there are enough small differences in what teams prioritize, usually based on the actual skill sets of a team, to say the small differences do add up to a difference in style of play between teams.Take the Avalanche, for instance. Like the Canucks, they are very aggressive on the forecheck, using both speed and inter-player co-ordination to force the opposition into difficult plays, the kinds that can be broken up and then turned the other way.A team is at its most vulnerable defensively the moment it loses possession. We’ve seen many examples of this strategy this season. Think of breakaway goals that Brock Boeser and Jake Virtanen have managed to score. Both wingers were free because they’d bolted up ice the moment they realized there had been a change in possession in their team’s favour.Not every team can do this but, yes, it’s generally the better teams that do. That’s because they have, shocker, better players.Take Nathan MacKinnon. The Avs know he’s going to get the puck and he’s going to change the pace of play immediately. His linemates know what his tendencies are, that there are certain shots he’s going to take but there are also certain passes he’s going to try and make too.That creates a player-centric system, one that most teams aren’t able to build, simply because there are next to no players like him out there.

Travis Green is a coach who believes in clear, on-going communication with his players.

James Carey Lauder /  

USA TODAY Sports
On that note, I asked Travis Green on Friday about the messaging he uses in his pre-game talks. The Canucks often give us glimpses of the pre-game speech from the coach in their montage videos.There’s a consistency of message you often hear from Green. Of course, we only get snippets, so I was curious about what his overall philosophy is for those short speeches. Does he go in with the idea that it’s really about reinforcing what his team needs to do night in, night out, or does he vary it up, with especial emphasis on a particular priority for the night?“Some days, you’re speaking different languages as a coach but saying the same message. The words might change a little bit, but the message is always very similar,” Green said. “I think, you know, that we’re trying to install certain types of habits and staples of our game that we want to have with our players, and how we remind them can be somewhat different, but it all ends up at the same place.“I try not to say the exact same thing over again. But I think that’s part of coaching, it’s trying to come up with different ways of selling the same Kool-Aid, I guess.”Furthermore, I figured it made sense to point out to him that 20 games in, we can not only see there are lots of good things happening with the Canucks’ offence but actual useful data to point to.Those 74 shot attempts on Saturday night against the Avalanche, a total that is big for most teams in the league, was nothing out of the ordinary for this team.It’s no fluke that eight times they’ve scored five goals in a game.The underlying numbers tell us it’s no fluke how well they’re playing; they’ve been league leaders in shot-attempts differential for much of the season. They’ve also been either at the top or near the top of the league for much of the season in how a game’s shot quality breaks down.I asked him what, when he sees those numbers, he thinks about.“You know, as a coach, you’re always like, ‘We probably should have more points, right?’ That’s how you think. Am I happy with the process of where we’re at? Yeah, I am. Am I happy with how we’re playing? Yeah, for the most part,” Green said.“I know, if we keep doing what we’re doing, as far as you’re talking, the analytics will look good. I don’t coach by analytics, but they’re showing you what you’re doing. They can provide justice, that what we believe in is in action. I think we’re on the right track. You know, sometimes you play well and you don’t win and sometimes you don’t play well and you get points. And … I’ve said this to people before, if you didn’t watch some games, you didn’t watch if the puck actually went across the line, you might pick the wrong team won the game.”

Look at those sweaters.

Gerry Kahrmann /  

PNG
It’s been an intense week for the Canucks’ captain. He spoke up about diversity and inclusion to start the week. There was a lot of noise that blew back to him on that, both positive and negative.On the ice, he had to carry an extra heavy load because of injuries to Brandon Sutter and Jay Beagle.He continues to skate very, very hard, but isn’t getting the five-on-five goals he deserves.And despite all that, he’s making sure to be the face of the team to everyone he meets.So those of you with eagle eyes may have noted this curious listing:That’s an odd one. Judd Brackett, as we all know, is in charge of amateur scouting for the Canucks, not pro scouting. And his primary amateur focus in on prospects in the U.S.So was that really Judd Brackett? A source in the Montreal press box said they didn’t think Brackett was actually there.So, was there a Canucks scout there? Was it someone going by Brackett’s name? If so, why that? Lou Crawford is the Canucks’ pro scout in the Atlantic Division, for the record.On the other hand, Scott Mellanby, Montreal’s assistant general manager, watched the Canucks at least twice during their California road trip, in Los Angeles and again in San Jose. (Was he in Anaheim? Not sure.)It is that time of year, where teams start pondering what the shape of their lineup is.David Quadrelli was the first person chosen to sit in Botch’s old chair in the press box. He’s a smart kid. Will be one to watch.What a night. Thank you @KatBotchford @ThomasDrance @patersonjeff @CanucksPR @imacSportsnet @risingaction and so many others for making this such a memorable experience. pic.twitter.com/CtGgQr72bHpjohnston@postmedia.comtwitter.com/risingactionWe encourage all readers to share their views on our articles and blog posts. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion, so we ask you to avoid personal attacks, and please keep your comments relevant and respectful. If you encounter a comment that is abusive, click the "X" in the upper right corner of the comment box to report spam or abuse. We are using Facebook commenting. Visit our FAQ page for more information.Connect with the Province365 Bloor St East, Toronto, ON, M4W3L4, www.postmedia.com