Replacing fossil fuels with “renewable” energy would devastate the only planet we’ve gotPaul DriessenEnvironmentalists and Green New Deal proponents like to say we must take care of the Earth, because “There is no Planet B.” Above all, they insist, we must eliminate fossil fuels, which they say are causing climate change worse than the all-natural ice ages, Medieval Warm Period or anything else in history.Their Plan A is simple: No fossil fuels. Keep them in the ground. More than a few Democrat presidential aspirants have said they would begin implementing that diktat their very first day in the White House.Their Plan B is more complex: Replace fossil fuels with wind, solar, biofuel and battery power – their supposedly renewable, sustainable alternatives to oil, gas and coal. Apparently by waving a magic wand.We don’t have a Planet B. And they don’t really have a Plan B. They just assume and expect that this monumental transformation will simply happen. Wind, solar, battery and biofuel technologies represent the natural evolution toward previously unimaginable energy sources – and they will become more efficient over time. Trust us, they say.Ask them for details, and their responses range from evasive to delusional, disingenuous – and outrage that you would dare ask. The truth is, they don’t have a clue. They’ve never really thought about it. It’s never occurred to them that these technologies require raw materials that have to be dug out of the ground, which means mining, which they vigorously oppose (except by dictators in faraway countries).They’re lawyers, lawmakers, enforcers. But most have never been in a mine, oilfield or factory, probably not even on a farm. They think dinner comes from a grocery store, electricity from a wall socket, and they can just pass laws requiring that the new energy materialize as needed. And it will happen Presto!It’s similar to the way they handle climate change. Their models, reports and headlines bear little or no resemblance to the real world outside our windows – on temperatures, hurricanes, tornadoes, sea levels, crops or polar bears. But the crisis is real, the science is settled, and anyone who disagrees is a denier.So for the moment, Let’s not challenge their climate or fossil fuel ideologies. Let’s just ask: How exactly are you going to make this happen? How will you ensure that your Plan A won’t destroy our economy, jobs and living standards? And your Plan B won’t devastate the only planet we’ve got? I’ll say it again:(1) Abundant, reliable, affordable, mostly fossil fuel energy is the lifeblood of our modern, prosperous, functioning, safe, healthy, fully employed America. Upend that, and you upend people’s lives, destroy their jobs, send their living standards on a downward spiral.(2) Wind and sunshine may be renewable, sustainable and eco-friendly. But the lands, habitats, wildlife, wind turbines, solar panels, batteries, transmission lines, raw materials, mines and laborers required or impacted to harness this intermittent, weather-dependent energy to benefit humanity absolutely are not.(3) The supposed cure they say we must adopt is far worse than the climate disease they claim we have.Using wind power to replace the 3.9 billion megawatt-hours that Americans consumed in 2018, coal and gas-fired backup power plants, natural gas for home heating, coal and gas for factories, and gasoline for vehicles – while generating enough extra electricity every windy day to charge batteries for just seven straight windless days – would require some 14 million 1.8-MW wind turbines.Those turbines would sprawl across three-fourths of the Lower 48 US states – and require 15 billion tons of steel, concrete and other raw materials. They would wipe out eagles, hawks, bats and other species.Go offshore instead, and we’d need a couple million truly monstrous 10-MW turbines, standing in water 20-100 feet deep or on huge platforms in deeper water, up and down our Atlantic and Pacific coasts. Not as many of the beasts, but each one a lot bigger – requiring vastly more materials per turbine.A Category 4 hurricane going up the Atlantic seaboard would wipe out a lot of them – leaving much of the country without power for months or years, until wrecks got removed and new turbines installed.Using solar to generate just the 3.9 billion MWh would require completely blanketing an area the size of New Jersey with sunbeam-tracking Nellis Air Force Base panels – if the Sun were shining at high-noon summertime Arizona intensity 24/7/365. (That doesn’t include the extra power demands listed for wind.)Solar uses toxic chemicals during manufacturing and in the panels: lead, cadmium telluride, copper indium selenide, cadmium gallium (di)selenide and many others. They could leach out into soils and waters during thunderstorms, hail storms, tornadoes, hurricanes, and when panels are dismantled and hauled off to landfills or recycling centers. Recycling panels and wind turbines presents major challenges.Using batteries to back up sufficient power to supply U.S. electricity needs for just seven straight windless days would require more than 1 billion half-ton Tesla-style batteries. That means still more raw materials, hazardous chemicals and toxic metals.Bringing electricity from those facilities, and connecting a nationwide GND grid, would require thousands of miles of new transmission lines – onshore and underwater – and even more raw materials.Providing those materials would result in the biggest expansion in mining the United States and world have ever seen: removing hundreds of billions of tons of overburden, and processing tens of billions of tons of ore – mostly using fossil fuels. Where we get those materials is also a major problem.If we continue to ban mining under modern laws and regulations here in America, those materials will continue to be extracted in places like Inner Mongolia and the Democratic Republic of Congo, largely under Chinese control – under labor, wage, health, safety, environmental and reclamation standards that no Western nation tolerates today. There’ll be serious pollution, toxics, habitat losses and dead wildlife.Even worse, just to mine cobalt for today’s cell phone, computer, Tesla and other battery requirements, over 40,000 Congolese children and their parents work at slave wages, risk cave-ins, and get covered constantly in toxic and radioactive mud , dust, water and air. Many die. The mine sites in Congo and Mongolia have become vast toxic wastelands. The ore processing facilities are just as horrific.Meeting GND demands would multiply these horrors many times over. Will Green New Dealers require that all these metals and minerals be responsibly and sustainably sourced, at fair wages, with no child labor – as they do for T-shirts and coffee? Will they now permit exploration and mining in the USA?Meeting basic ecological and human rights standards would send GND energy prices soaring. It would multiply cell phone, laptop, Tesla and GND costs five times over. But how long can Green New Dealers remain clueless and indifferent about these abuses?Up to now, this has all been out of sight, out of mind, in someone else’s backyard, in some squalid far-off country, with other people and their kids doing the dirty, dangerous work of providing essential raw materials. That lets AOC, Senator Warren, Al Gore, Michael Mann, Greenpeace and other “climate crisis-renewable energy” profiteers preen about climate justice, sustainability and saving Planet Earth.They refuse to discuss the bogus hockey stick temperature graph; the ways Mann & Co. manipulated and hid data, and deleted incriminating emails; their inability to separate human influences from the powerful natural forces that have caused climate changes throughout history; or the absurd notion that the 0.01% of Earth’s atmosphere that is carbon dioxide from fossil fuel use over the past 50 years is somehow responsible for every extreme weather event today. But they won’t be able to ignore this fraud forever.Meanwhile, we sure are going to be discussing the massive resource demands, ecological harm and human rights abuses that the climate alarm industry would impose in the name of protecting the Earth and stabilizing its perpetually unstable climate. We won’t let them dodge those issues in 2020.Paul Driessen is senior policy analyst for the Committee For A Constructive Tomorrow (www.CFACT.org) and author of books and articles on energy, climate, environmental and human rights issues.The Green New Deal reveals that on the Climate Alarm side there is no knowledge, no thinking, no analysis, no reason, and no idea of the consequences of the actions proposed.  One would get better thinking out of a room full of monkeys as they would not communicate at all.“The Green New Deal reveals that on the Climate Alarm side there is no knowledge, no thinking, no analysis, no reason, and no idea of the consequences of the actions proposed.”The GND is inspired by an ethic of ideal ends, not an ethic of responsibility.
(H/t Max Weber)The whole affair is a political one, no science required.
The Global Warmists are so far gone that they are now turning on their creator, Mr Mann, the fake hockey stick man, who in turn got assistance from the now known to be fraudulent IPCC.I hope fraudsters such as Mr Mann have their bolt holes ready.I note that there is no mention of nuclear power as carbon free source of energy for the fossil fuel free world demanded by the democrat party.  Although the USA runs away from nuclear power plants, many countries are installing new and safer plants to provide electric power for future generations.It is just not on to bring facts into discussions about “tackling climate change”.The best slapdown of the lunatic Green fringe(sic) I have ever read. Put it on the twitter feed of every poiitician in the Western world, and  on every desktop of every student, plus billboards alongside highways everywhere. Don’t let the loonies win, as they once did in pre-W2 Germany , point out that Himmler was the original loony lefty and Hitler the Charles Manson of his time. Dear heaven, please will someone make 20thC history compulsory  knowlege for all teachers in all schools. I too am frightened for my grandchildren — frightened of the Green lunatics who are bent on destroying Western culture and civilization.Take a look at what Canadians are being told by CBC this morning.https://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/un-emissions-report-1.5373154All true.
But surely, a small price to pay if our “Genius Beloved Leaders” can signal their virtues?
No?Mining turned Indonesian seas red. The drive for greener cars could herald a new toxic tide.By Ian Morse   November 20, 2019 at 2:00 a.m. PST
POMALAA, Indonesia — Where forested hills dip into the sea, Sahman Ukas scoops up rusty-red topsoil.His hands hold nickel that is more concentrated than many of the world’s richest deposits.It’s no wonder, then, that on Sahman’s island of Sulawesi, companies have opened several mines in the past 15 years to feed the global market for stainless steel — made ductile and tough with nickel.Now, a growing appetite for electric vehicles is creating new demand for nickel, whose chemical derivatives are increasingly used in cathodes of lithium-ion batteries. But the push for clean energy is coming at an environmental cost to forests and fisheries in one of the world’s most biodiverse regions.Sahman does not know how much more his fishing village can handle. In the decades of meeting nickel-for-steel demand, the seas have turned red, marine life has left past the horizon, and the exhaust of smelters has triggered respiratory problems.https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia-pacific/mining-turned-indonesian-seas-red-the-drive-for-greener-cars-could-herald-a-new-toxic-tide/2019/11/19/39c76a84-01ff-11ea-8341-cc3dce52e7de_story.html?utm_campaign=first_reads&utm_medium=Email&utm_source=Newsletter&wpisrc=nl_rainbow&wpmm=1I am 68 years young and since retirement several years ago I have followed many blogs and science website commentaries. I was at first keen to inform other folk of the intellectual dishonesty being exhibited by the lead dogs in the climate emergency industry. I now read these websites as a form of entertainment. Let’s face it, the fictional crap on our TV’s comes a poor second to the fantasies perpetuated on us by the little Greta‘s of this movement….. let the comedy continue.Climate Change is not about climate change.Understand that, and the scales fall from your eyes.The supposed cure they say we must adopt is far worse than the climate disease they claim we have. Well said!As I like to say.  It’s a solution that doesn’t work, for a problem that doesn’t exist.“Climate change” with all the supposed consequences, was BBC “thought for the day” this morning.
It’s supposed to be a religious pep talk.Makes things pretty clear doesn’t it?
At least the Bollox Broadcasting co got that bit right.Environmentalists and Green New Deal proponents need an Ark B instead of a Plan B.And a large supply of “Don’t Panic!” buttons. > ; }We    have pretend Martian dwelling on Earth. People live in   them  for extended periods.So what about a Green village.     Could be  on a Island nearby.   We can  supply y timber and hand saws, nails etc,  A  few shovels.    We can an even let them live by a stream of water. We can even install a few solar panels and one windmill. Build a fence around it and let them learn to survive.  Its back to nature as they wish on us. A  few TV   cameras   to broadcast this   “”Brave New World”” Now this is far more than soldiers needed to survive, so its fair. MJE  VK5ELLThey think dinner comes from a grocery store, electricity from a wall socket, and they can just pass laws requiring that the new energy materialize as needed. And it will happen Presto! It’s similar to the way they handle climate change.
————————You seem to be describing a Western generation-Z[ombie] ‘cargo-cult’ there.For them greenies, anything, batteries, spares, windmills, teslas can be bought on internet.And they have no clues on quantities nor physical meaning of kWh, kW,  and so on.Just ask them why a cordless screwdriver can take you thru the day while that very expensive cordless vacuum cleaner calls it quits in 30 minutes and is no match to the cheapest corded model.You have a very good point Flight Level, most people get frustrated over kWh, kW and anything with electricity.
Yesterday a girlfriend of mine said that it took longer time to charge her phone in the small rural shopping center, because they got the power from solar panels on the building’s roof (supplying a few kW on sunny days to the grid)! I tried to explain that what came out of the socket was 230V 50Hz sine wave, no matter what the solar panels did or did not do. She remained convinced the solar panels where not good at charging her phone.My favorite online Nazgul baiting response to “No Planet B” is to say “there is no energy supply system B” … guaranteed to drive them nuts. Popcorn time.Is it fair to call these renewables when it’s highly doubtful that they will ever generate the  power used in their manufacture?Yes: they managed to get the subsidies renewed. Even years after they claimed to be
– mature
– market ready
– at grid parity
– “cheaper than coal”Subsidies and future plans for more renewables are being curtailed already in Great Britain, Germany and Australia…and none have come close to meeting their CO2 emissions targets.https://www.google.com/amp/s/www.forbes.com/sites/michaelshellenberger/2019/09/05/renewables-threaten-german-economy-energy-supply-mckinsey-warns-in-new-report/amp/From my file of one liners, quotes and smart remarks:Left-wing Liberal Democrats and the Main Stream media have no sense of numbers, science and reality.
That’s why they think we can power the world’s economy on wind mills, solar panels, and squirrel cages.I am really quite relaxed about all this.  Because it cannot happen, it will not happen  –  as simple as that. Even just beginning to enforce the regime necessary will immediately begin to ruin our economy and we will suffer in all sort of ways. Tough on us.   Luckily we have China waiting  there in the background. They will take over the important job of continuing humankind’s inexorable progress.  Europe and America will be left behind. All empires fade away eventually –  for various, usually unexpected,  sorts of reasons.  Perhaps our time has now arrived.  From the point of view of the whole of humankind,  does it matter much??Kind’a matters to the 330 million of us living in the US. If you’re talking REALLY long term the universe will fade to heat death so nothing matters.“There is no Planet B. It’s the only planet we’ve got!”OK, Doomer…Obvious solution.  It’s time to get us some more planets.“How will you ensure that your Plan A won’t destroy our economy, jobs and living standards?”Naïve thinking. That is exactly the plan. They hate us for our ability to get high status through free markets participation.  In free market condition,  all the hot girls  are driven in Lamborghinis.
In socialists countries beautiful woman must please their overlords for food and other basics.  Just look up how much does a blow job cost in Venezuela.Just as their “plan” for “gun control” is “get rid (buyback or whatever) of those few weapons that are seldom used” and then… well “let’s study” the subject. Anyone interested would studied the subject already.Also, prosecute people for legal activities.It’s as if there was pattern.Gun control takes guns out of the hands of people who weren’t the problem in the first place.It seems to me that the reason the greenies oppose nuclear power is that it might actually work.IT’S 7.5 TIMES WORSE:Annual US total energy consumption is 100 Quads (Quadrillion BTU’s).  Electricity, Transportation,  Aviation, Heating, Industrial Heat…everything.https://www.eia.gov/energyexplained/us-energy-facts/That converts to 29 billion megawatt hours not the 3.9 billion megawatt hours cited in this article (??).http://www.kylesconverter.com/energy,-work,-and-heat/quads-to-megawatt-hoursSo multiply all the resource requirements in this article by about 7.5.Totally nuts.Then look at Germany’s struggle with costs already while hardly making a dent in CO2 emissions.A 1 GWh Nuclear plant produces 8.7 million MWh annually at best.  So the US will need over 3300 nuclear plants.  At over $10 Billion a pop, that’s only $33 Trillion.  But we spend $2 Trillion annually now…so those numbers work for assets that last 40 years with virtually no fuel costs (Thorium and Uranium fuel costs would be rounding errors of total costs).There are about 11,000 days until 2050, so we’ll need to commission one new Nuclear Plant every 3-4 days…JUST FOR THE US.  We’d  better get going !!NOBODY in the Climate Crisis crowd is talking about that kind of mobilization of resources.The Climate Crisis crowd invented a problem too big to fix…and not enough time within which to fix it.That sort of message marginalized Roger Pielke Jr.You might also point out that the rest of the world wants to live on a par with the US standard of living. The USA is only about 5% of the worlds population. CO2 molecules produced by the rest of the world operate the same as those produced by the US. So, GND “solves” only 5% of the “problem.” So, take the numbers of Mr. Driessen, multiply by the 7.5 you noted above, then multiply that by 20 to get to the point that we are emitting no more CO2 worldwide than we were before the industrial revolution.Thus, more like 4 nuclear power plants world-wide per day for the next 11,000 days.This article indicates the mammoth task to eventually move away from fossil fuels.  While intermittents may be able to extend the life of fossil fuel supplies, there needs to be serious effort put into finding economic alternative to fossil fuels.With current technology, the only economic alternative is managed forests and they will only further extend the life of fossil fuel supplies because there is not enough land to provide biomass for the total energy supply.The only known possibility to replace fossil fuels is nuclear fusion.   What is the time line for commercial production from this source?Widespread fusion installation would be at least 40 years out IF WE HAD THE TECH NOW.  We’ll need around 24,000 1Gwatt Fusion Plants for the world’s 900 Quadrillion BTU energy requirements by 2050.We’ll be lucky if we have a working fusion design by 2050.So Nuclear Fission will have to do the job the rest of this century.OIl, gas and coal will have no problem doing the job for the rest of this century, and a sizable chunk of the rest of the millenia as well.We have hundreds of years till oil and gas run out.  Several thousand till coal runs out.
Given how much technology has advanced in the last 400 years, it’s a fools errand to try and determine what the next energy producing technology should be.And this is just the USAnd this is just electricity generation.Generalize it to the world, and its not possible.   There are not enough engineers, not enough manufacturing capacity, and there is not enough battery material.On a global scale its simply impossible.  On a US scale its not only impossible, its also totally ineffective even if it were possible.With COP25 less than a week away, the Alarmist rhetoric and lies have reached a fever pitch. I listened to as much of it as I could stand on NPR this morning. They even admitted that there has been a failure to meet even the moderate goals of the Paris Accord. If pressed, I think they’d admit that essentially nothing has been done and yet, they prattle on about how the goals need to be increased. Then they lie about how wind and solar now cost less than fossil fuels. On the climate campaign front, they wax retarded about how they now have a worldwide youth movement, plus cities and towns, plus businesses deciding to “go green” (or however they put it) on their own, not only for the sake of the planet, but because it’s good for them financially. They just can’t stop lying.Does the Green Leap Forward include methods  to make nitrogen fertilizer, portland cement, or to smelt metals without fossil fuels?Planet B is where liberals come from.The Climate Lysenkoists will keep the hoax going for as long as possible.  Many millions of people depend on the perpetuation of the hoax, just like the many who depend on government handouts to pay for their housing, food, education, mobile phones, etc.  In their minds, the hoax is too big to fail.The most brilliant such short, decisive explanation I have seen. Congratulations!As a Registered Professional Chemical Engineer (Florida ), I have had to evaluate energy costs and practicality on a regular basis.
My evaluation of Renewable Energy is   Hydro -> Bad (dams destroy fish populations needed by poor people to survive)  Fish ladders?…..
Hydrothermal   OK but often expensive.   Wind?  Usually silly w/o better pumped storage availability.   Solar –>  Give me a break.  Only valid where sun shines, which is also where most of the Crude is from, otherwise only valid away from a Good Grid.
Hydrogen…Dream On.
*************************
However, as long term readers will recall,  I have pointed out that the Electric Sun model claims that LENR is proven by the theory that Solar energy is mostly from nuclear fusion occurring in the plasmic corona of the sun, not under extreme pressures in the center of the sun.Numerous efforts are currently underway to see if the stripping of electrons from elements in a plasma might result  in some form of transmutation.  I follow https://e-catworld.com/2019/11/24/statement-of-andrea-rossi-we-did-it-obtained-permanent-self-sustaining-mode/ and discount negative thoughts about A. Rossi being a great fraud.  I think of him as Nicola Tesla …in a great competition with Edison and Westinghouse.Hydrogen (minus electron) plus Lithium7 (minus electrons) —> truly renewable energy.   An the heck with CO2Excellent explanation of why renewable energy is a myth.
My greatest concern is that a point will be reached when we have destroyed to many fossil powers plants before they realize the harm they have done and that there is not enough time or power to recover.Producing enough electricity to take care of existing power requirement is bad enough, but having enough power to produce the solar panels, wind mills and batteries to produce the power we need is not taken into account. If you do take that required power into account, you reach an impossibility because “renewable” power has a negative coefficient: it generate less power than needed to be manufactured… discussion over.Besides the huge amount of resources and enormous footprint required for solar and wind, proponents ignore the costs of toxic material disposal and decommissioning associated with those technologies. Worse yet is the elephant in the room–grid stability and the generation of reactive power. Too high of a fraction of unreliable energy sources on a grid will bring it down, the consequences of which could be more devastating than those of a major war, let alone the laughable dire predictions of the global warming alarmists. Of course, the reliability issue could be softened by enormous amounts of battery backup, but such a strategy simply amplifies the cost, resource availability and toxic material disposal issues.
The only real options are fossil and nuclear fission, the cost of the latter being many times what it could be due its absurd over-regulation.Perhaps another paragraph close to the end, saying that by the time we have constructed the necessary wind turbines, solar panels, and batteries, we can immediately start over, because the life expectancy of wind turbines is x; solar panels, y; and batteries, z.That brings up a question I have not been able to find an answer for: what is the shelf-life of an EV’s battery? Everything seems geared to total possible miles you can put on a battery, but that doesn’t help me. Time would kill my battery, not miles. I don’t drive that much. I know lithium batteries have a shelf-life, so there’s an answer out there, somewhere. And please don’t tell me what the warranties are. Battery guarantees are worthless. My experience is that manufacturers will give, say, a four-year warranty on a three-year battery, then pro-rate a discount on a new one when it goes bad – a 25% discount on the full retail price if a new battery, which is commonly found on sale at that price. They are simply selling three year batteries at the full, retail price of a three year battery.Replacing fossil fuels with “renewable” energy would devastate the only planet we’ve gotThat’s a feature not  bug for the Malthusian left. Their plan A is their Plan B (IE the “morning after” pill) – aborting/ending most human life on planet A.Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website  Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. 

“Walk toward the fire. Don’t worry about what they call you.” – Andrew Breitbart | read more“…the world’s most viewed climate website”
– Fred Pearce The Climate Files:
The Battle for the Truth about Global Warming“…invaluable” – Steven F. Hayward, The Weekly Standard“…changed the world and is one of the most influential resources on global warming. – Jonathon Moseley, American Thinker“…flashy (apparently widely distributed)”– Michael E. MannYou are following WUWT via emailJoin 58,031 other subscribers

							Email Address                        







	                        Follow                        
 RSS - Posts RSS - CommentsMaterial on this website is copyright © 2006-2019, by Anthony Watts, and may not be stored or archived separately, rebroadcast, or republished without written permission. (Miriam O’Brien aka slandering “Sou” from Hotwhopper, that means you.)For permission, contact us. See the About>Contact menu under the header.All rights reserved worldwide.Some material from contributors may contain additional copyrights of their respective company or organization.