Tesla’s infotainment system is already the market leader for its functionality and features, and Elon Musk wants this to remain so well into the future.Speaking with reporters during Tesla’s most recent earnings call, Musk said that the electric automaker’s goal is to have an infotainment system that provides “the most amount of fun you can have in a car.”Tesla has long offered unique infotainment features not found elsewhere on the market. For example, Easter eggs such as a sketch pad, romance mode, a gaming mode, and the ability to ‘drive’ the vehicle on Mars are popular across Tesla’s ownership base. More recently, the marque added a ‘Caraoke’ mode while also giving Model S, Model X, and Model 3 owners the ability to connect their Netflix, Hulu and YouTube accounts to the infotainment display when the vehicle is in park.Also Read: Tesla Infotainment Could Eventually Support Third-Party AppsIn a bid to catch up with Tesla, many other car manufacturers are working on making their infotainment systems more diverse and fun to use, content strategist at Edmunds, Will Kaufman, revealed to CNBC.“Especially the luxury automakers — they are definitely looking at ways to make their offerings something that stands out from competitors,” he said. “There’s no sense in selling a car with a DVD player for the backseat anymore. Whose kid in this day and age would really want that?” One way car manufacturers are looking to improve their infotainment systems is to partner with large technology company’s like Google, Apple and Amazon to make for a more seamless experience. Moving forward, carmakers may start to look at ways to monetize their infotainment systems. Musk says Tesla has yet to do this, but it’s thought that, at some stage, this practice may become commonplace. Oh good, just what we need. More distractions while driving. What can possibly go wrong.I’d say it’s pretty obvious that this stuff won’t work unless the car is in park. Just as the article says about the Tesla stuff…True, but that won’t stop people on car forums with solutions “Hey, I bypassed the safety protocols, now I can watch YouTube while in drive.” Everything and anything software is hackable.That’s on them if they want to be stupid.This is for the times you are charging your car. It makes perfect sense.Moving forward, carmakers may start to look at ways to monetize their infotainment systems.I’ll pass, thanks.Eventually, they’re going to monetize actual systems. “Pay $5000 to unlock 100 more horsepower. Use credit card on file?”Cars have become ridiculous.VW will sell “upgrades” to the Golf’s ambience lighting and tail lights light design. Honda already sells car with the exact same engine with cheaper models being programmed less horsepower.mehSo innovative. I can’t believe Tesla is the only automaker to look into this…This unofficial Tesla Cybertruck set would look right at home in LEGO’s own catalog.It’s safe to say that this rider’s ego suffered at least as much damage as his bike.The new generation VW Golf GTI was spied testing in the snow, ahead of next year’s debut.The successor of the Porsche 918 Spyder might become the number 1 rival of the Mercedes AMG One.The Skoda Kamiq GT “coupe-SUV” is slightly longer and curiously taller than the base Kamiq.The facelifted Bentley Bentayga will likely make its debut in 2020.China’s BAIC previously negotiated a 5 percent stake in Daimler back in July.These two Taycan Turbos are likely the first electric vehicles upgraded by Porsche Exclusive.The 2011-2013 Dodge Durango and Jeep Grand Cherokee are recalled due to possible engine stall.Production of the Aston Martin DBS Superleggera Concorde is limited to 10 units.