Published: Nov 26, 2019 11:21 a.m. ETByJust last week, everything seemed so jovial.Ford

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    F, -0.28%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                        unveiled its Mustang Mach-E, the company’s first battery-powered SUV, and Tesla’s

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    TSLA, -1.33%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                        Elon Musk, who potentially has the most to lose in an increasingly crowded electric-car market, tweeted out, “Congratulations!” Musk was “excited to see this announcement.”Ford responded cordially, “Thanks, Elon. We couldn’t agree more. See you at the charging station!” Happy times in the cutthroat car industry.But then this happened:Cybertruck pulls F-150 uphill pic.twitter.com/OfaqUkrDI3That’s a clip, which has now been viewed almost 13 million times, of Tesla’s futuristic Cybertruck easily dragging a Ford F-150 uphill. The demonstration raised plenty of eyebrows, with car fans pointing out Tesla advantages such as the lower-spec F-150 being in rear-wheel drive. They also noted that it appears as if Tesla was given a head start in the tug of war. Even Neil deGrasse Tyson chimed in:A badass @Tesla looking like it’s doing a badass thing.  But if the @Ford F-150 is RWD **with no payload** then weight on the Rear Axle is greatly reduced, offering only mild traction for the Tesla to overcome. This contest is more about the Physics of Friction than Engine Power.So Sundeep Madra, vice president at Ford X fired off this tweet-challenge to Musk on Monday as the clip continued to draw eyeballs: Musk’s response: “Bring it on.”Who knows if it will happen. Neither car maker immediately responded to MarketWatch requests for comment. But both Tesla and the Ford F-150 have some seriously loyal followers, so there’s definitely a market for such a spectacle. 
                                            Shawn Langlois is an editor and writer for MarketWatch in Los Angeles. Follow him on Twitter @slangwise.
                                        Join the conversationCopyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
            By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service,
            Privacy Policy, and
            Cookie Policy.
          
          Intraday Data provided by FACTSET and subject to terms of use.
          Historical and current end-of-day data provided by FACTSET.
          All quotes are in local exchange time.
          Real-time last sale data for U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only.
          Intraday data delayed at least 15 minutes or per exchange requirements.
        