Earlier this month, Gartner released its top 10 strategic technology trends for 2020. As 2019 draws to a close, Gigabit Magazine is doing a series breaking down the biggest technology trends set to reshape the global business landscape over the next year. Gartner considers “autonomous things” to be one of 2020’s top tech trends. Autonomy comes on a spectrum, with one of the most profitable definitions coming from the Society of Automotive Engineers’ (SAE) Levels of Driving Automation Standard. Going from 0 to 5, the first three levels describe assisted driver support features such as adaptive cruise control and lane centering. Levels 3 and above cover autonomous driving in increasing levels of complexity, with the level 5 standard being the holy grail – complete autonomy at all times.SEE ALSO:Gartner tech trends 2020: augmented humansGartner tech trends 2020: Developing the multiexperienceGartner tech trends 2020: What is hyperautomation?Read the latest issue of Gigabit hereThe arrival of autonomous cars will likely not simply result in everyone possessing virtual chauffers. Rather, it will have a transformative impact on the design (why have a steering wheel in a car you don’t drive?) and ownership of vehicles. This last point is being explored by Tesla, which is planning on allowing owners of Tesla vehicles to send out their cars to act autonomously in robotaxi fleets, earning money both for Tesla and the owners.Autonomous things are not restricted to the land, however. Autonomous drones are already available in commercial settings, in this case used by Exyn Technologies to build 3D maps of remote locations. Drones themselves are an interesting proposition for autonomy. Their relative cheapness makes them perfect for operating as swarms, and autonomy sidesteps the need for pilots.Gartner cautions that autonomous things perform best with a narrow scope, and should not be expected to be all things to all people. In other words, Gartner isn’t expecting the imminent arrival of machine consciousness, despite Boston Dynamics doing its best to provide that potential consciousness nightmarish robot bodies.The rapidly advancing global digital transformation powered by Industry 4.0 is leading to a proliferation of advanced automation capabilities. According to Gartner, robotic process automation (RPA) is the fastest growing category of enterprise software. In a world where technology advances at such a rapid rate, the decade-long rise of everything as a serviceFrom artificial intelligence (AI) to the Internet of Things (IoT), the technological developments driving Industry 4.0 have dramatic implications for the future of manufacturing. A new report released today by the Capgemini Research Institute found that smart factories have the potential toThe world witnessed a revolution in the taxi industry with the advent of ride hailing apps such as Uber and Lyft. Existing firms have been forced to modernise their offerings – introducing apps, for instance – and make the process more transparent. Now, advanced artificial intelligence is giving rise to a new disruptive force in the industry: robotaxis.© 2019 BizClik Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved. User Agreement and Privacy Policy