If getting the new Cybertruck to be the talk of the town was Tesla CEO Elon Musk’s prime objective, then by all accounts, he nailed it with Thursday night’s presentation.Thing is, it wasn’t as nearly positively received as Tesla’s hand-picked and clap-happy audience would have you believe while watching the live-streamed event in California. No, no, we’re not referring to the unbreakable window that broke – that’s something they’ll figure out at Tesla, but to the reactions to the Cybertruck’s design.Watch: Tesla Cybertruck And Ford F-150 Play Tug Of War, Looks Like An Uneven MatchWe can’t remember the last time we saw a new automotive product being so heavily criticized and even ridiculed for its styling well before the presentation was complete. There are literally hundreds of #CyberTruck memes circulating on all social media and commenting platforms, including our own.As is often the case with products and brands that have a strong and dedicated following, fans will often point to the old adage that “all publicity is good publicity, as long as they spell your name right” or “the only thing worse than being talked about is not being talked about,” and so on. Take your pick.Now, you can also take your pick from the sample of memes that caught our attention on the interweb or better yet, give us your own top picks in the comments.  #CybertruckIf you’re getting a cybertruck your going to need some of these bad boys pic.twitter.com/TrlvZtZif0— Hashir Asad (@H_as02_) November 22, 2019Found the perfect #Cybertruck , fellas pic.twitter.com/oz8BLDK76g— Niche Gamer (@nichegamer) November 24, 2019Tesla have been kind enough to deliver one of the new #Cybertruck for me to test, I must admit I'm not that sure on it pic.twitter.com/gJeCY1X1XR— Simon welch (@squelchy1) November 23, 2019 Who doesnt want a Cybertruck as a doorstop! #tesla #cybertruck #elonmuskA post shared by  Ghoulage Brands LLC (@ghoulagebrands) on Nov 25, 2019 at 10:40am PST Steve Jobs, the visionary that he was, long-ago considered launching #cybertruck before @elonmusk and @Tesla. It never launched because a tethered #EV wasn't going to succeed with mainstream consumers. Also, it was beige. Instead, @Apple applied the design to a single-button mouse which changed the world of computing. The rest is history. . #truestory #lol #tesla #apple #innovation #pickuptruckA post shared by  Brian Solis (@briansolis) on Nov 25, 2019 at 8:10am PSTPosted by Osamies on Saturday, November 23, 2019— Andrea (@andreanigro_) November 23, 2019My absolute favorite #Cybertruck meme pic.twitter.com/34pBhKyjjx— Andrew Foster (@andrew_fosterrr) November 22, 2019live look at elon musk #cybertruck pic.twitter.com/fhk6sEbfGW— NeoN: Automataster (@neontaster) November 22, 2019A post shared by  1320meme (@1320meme) on Nov 24, 2019 at 8:21pm PSTJust my personality I guess – but I tend to defend people and things that are under attack. I’m starting not to hate this new truck.THE REALITY IS, IF LAMBORGHINI RELEASED IT EVERYONE WOULD BE STROKING OVER IT. https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/4a329bded20b1ab0331d3d7652d4fab15077bffafefa31f3469c7bee6f11e941.jpgYes. Probably. Back when the Countach was new.But Lamborghini actually knows how to design cars.Lamborghini knows how to design cars that no one can afford. Let’s praise them and worship them knowing you will never achieve their car and meanwhile are stuck driving a Nissuck SentraYou know you want onehttps://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/85220ae5e46649e559234df6d1731575456b06ddb762a860f4256032e2510f3e.pngHahaha!This is exactly Elon Musk wanted. A huge marketing move.. it might backfire if this was just a stunt to get him more attention by showing a One of version created on a night everyone was stoned, but the actual production vehicle looks nothing remotely to this; it will piss off a lot of folks who want it.Does it need to look like this?The doorstop one is pretty funny imoFOLLYUrbacar in 1975 mechanics magazine!!! THAT’s where the idea came from, I knew I saw that before, not just as Johnny Cab design in Total recall. LMAO!As I said before I absolutely love it! However, paradoxically, I wouldn’t want to see this as a trend of even a horde of them. This design should be used as salt finely sprinkled on a salad to add flavor to other wise a dull taste. The salad of course being the traditional truck industry. And as for memes I’ll take the high Musk.IMO- I think it’s a mule to test the new battery tech, tri motors and stainless steel monocoque chassis. They’ll introduce a revised version of the production design sometime next year. Meanwhile having generated huge media debate from the likes of these comments and posts. Deposits will increase when the revised design is revealed complete with normal steering wheel and Tesla branding. Elon loves publicity stunts especially teasing the mediaNone… Leave him alone…”CYBER-Bullyng…If he can hit the specs he claims, it won’t matter what it looks like. But what it looks like, is that Tesla designed it the night before their paper was due. Tesla deserves a lot of credit if they pull off the mechanicals at those price points, but the exterior needs many, many hours of additional development work into something not only more refined and attractive, but something that can actually meet required standards for safety, lighting, pedestrian impact, rearview mirrors, etc.The specs are of course amazing but so is the design and all the media coverage it receives. It’s so radical and everywhere at the same time that I believe Tesla’s changing peoples fundamental perception of new car design.
Not a single competitor was prepared for model S’s performance, then for model 3’s value and now for Cybertruck’s extreme design. Gamechanger, againLost me at the “value” of a model 3 thing is not a value at all.production started in 2017 but tell me who even in late 2019 has similar performance, awd, range, emissions, on-board technology, comfort/space, for the price of a model 3 while maintaining such low cost of ownership ?Exactly, the Model 3 (unfortunately for us buyers) has no direct competitor yet.I hope it doesn’t trouble you that the Model 3 is the most sold electric car worldwide and in some countries it’s the most sold car in any category.I bought my Model 3 in September and a few weeks later it went up $500. I also got 5% power increase and one pedal driving with a software update for free.The value of my car went up and my car is even better than it was when I bought itTesla is the greatest automaker on the planetENOUGH WITH THIS DAMN CYBETRUCK THINGappreciate the damn memes you uncultured swineAs I predicted last week, another source is claiming that there will be at least 16 electric pickups on the market in the coming years (if all the start-ups successfully launch) and there will be MASSIVE overstocking on the lots. All because of too many available for sale and the fact that no one wants them. The whole thing is a mess and yes, I too am tired of hearing about this farce.All of them really.So it might be ugly and a flop, but Musk is getting a lot of press for it, which could be what he wanted all along. I still don’t see it being successful though. Doug DeMuro did a video about this on his non-review channel and he lays out how this is priced like a HD pickup with towing like a light duty.I don’t think most sales will come from existing truck owners, it’s appeal is probably going to be from a mix of groups. Like most trucks I see on the road, most owners probably will never tow anything. I personally like the steel body, don’t have to worry about door dings or hail anymore (last car was hit 4 times in 2 years by hail – in Colorado). Something that is quick, lot’s of room and potentially great for camping, I’d take this over a 4Runner or a Rebel any day.No Minecraft? No doorstop?Elon Musk is a marketing genius$0 budget and we are all advertising the Cybertruck with memes. This is why automakers envy TeslaAnd I like this one https://uploads.disquscdn.com/images/af8c7ed2effd61c64a504ac6c56db3e7dfcaf1bae2b9ffe4c8b129420984c917.jpgThis unofficial Tesla Cybertruck set would look right at home in LEGO’s own catalog.It’s safe to say that this rider’s ego suffered at least as much damage as his bike.The new generation VW Golf GTI was spied testing in the snow, ahead of next year’s debut.The successor of the Porsche 918 Spyder might become the number 1 rival of the Mercedes AMG One.The Skoda Kamiq GT “coupe-SUV” is slightly longer and curiously taller than the base Kamiq.The facelifted Bentley Bentayga will likely make its debut in 2020.China’s BAIC previously negotiated a 5 percent stake in Daimler back in July.These two Taycan Turbos are likely the first electric vehicles upgraded by Porsche Exclusive.The 2011-2013 Dodge Durango and Jeep Grand Cherokee are recalled due to possible engine stall.Production of the Aston Martin DBS Superleggera Concorde is limited to 10 units.