
			Trending:		Are there any engineers left in Brookline? Their virtue signaling fossil fuel ban for both new construction and major rehab will have no effect on climate change, considering any wire you connect is mostly powered by fossil fuel. (Next time you see a Tesla driver, remind them of this.) In fact, you cannot change the temperature of the earth from Massachusetts because we only create 1.3% of our nation’s greenhouse gasses.China is another story, and currently has 148 gigawatts of new coal-fired capacity under construction. To put this in perspective, all the EU nations together have 150 gigawatts of existing coal capacity.With one in seven people around the world still without electricity, look for this growth to continue. I suggest that social justice warriors grapple with plastic straws, and leave energy to the engineers.— Adam Lange, BrewsterIf you’ve seen the news lately, you know youth today are calling for solutions to climate change. From the words of 16-year-old climate activist Gerta Thunberg during a protest in Germany in March of this year, “We are striking because we have done our homework, and they have not.” The younger generations know the crisis we face and are calling for action.These kids can see the damage being done to their planet and feel they need to speak up to adults who seem to ignore climate issues. One of the most agreed upon solutions to climate change is the carbon fee and dividend plan. This plan would place a fee on carbon at the source, per metric ton. Then the money collected would be returned equally among households. The money would support economic growth and help pay for cleaner energy.Today’s youth have a strong united voice about climate change and the demand for solutions. We can address this problem by issuing a carbon fee and dividend plan.— Megan Pardoe, Nashua, N.H.Regarding the U.S. Congress’ ill-advised Nov. 20 vote to reauthorize the now-defunct Cape Cod National Seashore Advisory Commission, there is good reason the Interior Department has not supported its continuation.The panel was supposed to consult on matters relating to development of the National Seashore and to carry out specific provisions of the park’s enabling legislation.Moreover, it was tasked to provide advice before permits are issued for industrial or commercial use of property within the Seashore; establishment of any public use area for recreational activity within the Seashore; and any proposed action that would create a substantive change in natural conditions or in existing structures within the Seashore.Two years ago, the Interior secretary ordered that the value of the commission be evaluated and wanted the park to justify the advisory committee’s existence. Not surprisingly, it appears the park failed in this endeavor. Also, things at the Seashore have been running quite smoothly during the past year without it.I believe the advisory commission had outlived its usefulness and morphed into what had essentially become a glorified social club that accomplished little of practical value that could be empirically measured.— Ron Beaty, Barnstable County Commissioner, Barnstable Sign up for email newsletters