An American teenager's clever TikTok video managed to sneak in banned commentary on the topic of China's concentration camps and torture programs for Uighur Muslims. The teen's video was bookended with beauty tips, and went viral with 1.4M+ views and ~500,000 likes. Many copycats. China didn't like it.Feroza Aziz asked her fans to join her in raising awareness of  "another Holocaust" happening now in China's Uighur camps.GUYS NO JOKE THIS TUTORIAL HELPED ME SO MUCH PLEASE WATCH IT pic.twitter.com/BuITSebOu6— saltys backup (@soIardan) November 24, 2019Aziz later said on Twitter that TikTok blocked her from posting new content, as a result of her posting this video about a banned topic by the company with China government ties.TikTok told BBC News they banned her for posting “terrorism” related content.I haven't (yet) seen the terrorism video so can't verify. Either way, the timing (that TikTok took action on someone who posted a video China wouldn't like) has raised Qs. "TikTok does not moderate content due to political sensitivities," spokeswoman says.— Sarah Frier (@sarahfrier) November 26, 2019Related reporting at BBC: • Data leak reveals how China 'brainwashes' Uighurs in prison campsPreviously at Boing Boing:• China has 500+ Uighur camps and prisons and is holding far more than one million, activists say• Massive leak of Chinese government documents reveal the "no mercy" plan for Muslims in XinjiangThis morning’s installment of the House impeachment hearings against manifestly unfit and corrupt U.S. President Donald Trump have been something else, indeed. Don’t miss history unfolding in front of you. Watch. LIVE: House Judiciary Committee Impeachment Inquiry Hearing Professor Pamela Karlan was absolutely on fire. Pamela Karlan *is not* messing around: "Here Mr. Collins I […]Uh-oh, someone’s in trouble.In a decision released late Tuesday night, a federal judge ruled that up to 29 million Facebook users whose personal info was stolen in a September 2018 data breach are not entitled to sue Facebook as a group for damages — but the users may be entitled to demand better personal data security at Facebook.
In the course of any day, we encounter many different audio environments. If you are wearing earbuds, the ambient noise level can affect your listening experience. The HUB wireless earbuds adapt to different surroundings using smart noise-cancellation technology. They can either block out distractions or enhance conversations. They are normally priced at $250, but you […]It’s no secret that web developers are in increasingly high-demand throughout multiple industries, but you don’t need to invest an exorbitant amount of time or money in a traditional tech education in order to get the skills you need to join this lucrative field. The Ultimate 2020 Web Designer & Developer Bundle will teach you […]For many of us, smoking provides relief from the stress of everyday life and a good excuse to take a break. At home, getting a quick fix is pretty easy. But when your schedule involves dashing from one place to the next, you may end up missing out. The Allin1E Smoking Tool is designed for […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support