So you've decided to buy a Tesla Cybertruck, but slate gray isn't your color. Luckily, for you, there's now a way to buy skins for your overpriced Blade Runner cosplay vehicle.Enter dbrand, maker of skins for your favorite tech toys, like iPhones and AirPods cases. According to a Tuesday morning tweet, the company is making skins for the Cybertruck. This is not a joke.https://t.co/b2LXy9HZ5N pic.twitter.com/5q4wcLJwXU— dbrand (@dbrand) November 26, 2019Sure enough, on dbrand's website, you can pick from 30+ Cybertruck skin options, ranging from camo to dragon to, yes, wood paneling. Make your Cybertruck the object of every Click Griswold dream. Just LOOK AT IT.
BEHOLD MY WAGON OF THE FUTURE
Image:  dbrand / Screenshot
Now, this all seems a little too silly to be true, right? The broken window in the dbrand skin creator is a nice touch, but it seems like one giant wink, as opposed to something you can actually purchase. Then there's the copy on the site, which takes plenty of opportunities to rib Musk."Cybertruck skins pose an existential question for us: how can you de-brand a Cybertruck? What else could it possibly be confused for? A half-baked 3D render from the 1990s? Your first drawing of a truck in 3rd grade? Of course not," the company writes. As for why they're doing it? The company says, "Let's face it: at least one of you maniacs is going to read this and be compelled enough to buy one. That's how it all starts. As for how it ends... maybe it's better if you don't know."
Sure why not.
Image:  Dbrand
Of course, that sort of copy is found all over the site (their MacBook Pro copy is particularly inspired). Also, the tweet itself literally says it's not a joke and the site was ready take my $2,400 preorder for the above toddler fever dream design. So it appears as if, yes, you really can design your own Cybertruck skin. SEE ALSO: It's on: Tesla Cybertruck and Ford F-150 are going to warWe've reached out to the fine folks at dbrand for more details about this new venture and for information about the skins themselves. The site describes them as "oversized, adhesive-backed pieces of geometrically-shaped vinyl."But how do they differ from, say, the iPhone skins? Will they be durable enough to protect your Cybertruck from sledgehammers and the coming AI apocalypse?For now, though, it's fun to play around with the generator and see what kind of warped NASCAR designs of the future you can create.  