
                    TNW uses cookies to personalize content and ads to
                    make our site easier for you to use.
                    We do also share that information with third parties for
                    advertising & analytics.
                    Gadgets for humansOne of the more impressive demos from Tesla‘s Cybertruck unveil was a tug-of-war contest where it pulled a Ford F150 uphill. Effective of a clip as it was, many have doubted the contest, indicating the Cybertruck was helped by its higher weight, increased friction, or some other variable. Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson even chimed in:Electric vehicles are famously heavy – over both axles. It’s all about the weight borne by spinning tires. That’s the source of traction, not the engine power.— Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) November 25, 2019Then earlier today, Ford VP Sunny Madra joined the fray, challenging Tesla to a real “apples to apples”  contest:— sunny madra (@sundeep) November 25, 2019It’s not clear what Madra would change to make it a fair test, but some have claimed the Ford F350, with its higher torque diesel engines, would present a fairer challenge against the Cybertruck – it’s closer in price range too. It’s also worth noting Ford is working on its own electric F-150, which would certainly be the fairest comparison of them all.Musk doesn’t seem worried though. In response, he simply tweeted:Bring it on https://t.co/pCnln1NdRO— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 25, 2019This is almost certainly all just playful baiting, but I’d totally be down for a Ford vs Tesla exhibition match to the death, just saying. Something about competition being better for the consumer or whatever.For more gear, gadget, and hardware news and reviews, follow Plugged on
            Twitter and
            Flipboard.
            
                                    Published November 26, 2019 — 01:00 UTC
                                
                                        November 26, 2019 — 01:00 UTC
                                    The Heart of Tech™Thank you!