AdvertisementSupported byThe company has been trying for two decades to tame the internet. Its new video streaming service finally hits the mark. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. Have you heard of “The Mandalorian”?If not, you most certainly will, given that the Walt Disney Company signed up an impressive 10 million subscribers for the streaming video service it rolled out this week. “The Mandalorian” — a bounty-hunting, cape-heavy spinoff of the “Star Wars” franchise — is the flagship of the many original series that the company has stuffed into the new Disney Plus, its attempt to break into the crowded streaming space that for years has been dominated by Netflix.“Now is the winter of our Disney content,” someone tweeted perfectly.Wall Street is going crazy over the achievement and is lauding the company for what seems to many like an overnight digital success. But, while the praise is deserved, the story of Disney and the internet is more like “The Empire Finally Strikes Back”: The company has been trying for 25 years to tame the online medium, and most of its efforts have fallen flat.That’s why this triumph is certainly a credit to the Disney chief executive, Bob Iger, who told me of his commitment to getting digital right back in a 2006 interview, just after he got the top job. “If someone’s going to eat our digital lunch, it might as well be us,” he said.At that point, he must have been starving, since the company had already been through a decade of huge and ill-conceived tech missteps under his predecessor, Michael Eisner. Mr. Iger would continue struggling for years to cook up the right meal, but his efforts will become a case study in dogged tenacity and a willingness to keep on going despite myriad setbacks.Forget the dashing Mandalorian. Do you remember Starwave? Infoseek? Go? Daily Blast? Spoonful.com? Club Penguin? Tapulous? Maker Studios?I’d like to say I don’t either, but I know them very well. They were among the many failed efforts by Disney that I have covered as a reporter since the mid-1990s, when it became clear to Disney that this internet thing just might be a big deal.Unfortunately for Disney executives, the surging successes of many digital companies had not been shared by them, as they spent huge amounts of time, effort and, of course, money with little result while new companies like Google, Facebook and Amazon became multibillion-dollar behemoths.They weren’t alone. It was a path shared by many legacy-media giants. For example, News Corporation’s internet graveyard includes MySpace, The Daily, Delphi Internet Service and Iguide, all of which resulted in not much.But Disney continued plugging along — over all the others. This digital transformation has been a Disney dream from the moment it formed the Disney Online unit in the summer of 1995 under the guidance of another executive, Jake Winebaum.Mr. Winebaum was certainly a tech enthusiastic, rolling out DisneyStore.com and also Family.com, which was soon merged with the Seattle-based Starwave’s Family Planet and then was morphed into Dailyblast.com, a family-focused content subscription site. In 1998, there came a directory called Dig.com (short for Disney Internet Guide), and then the company acquired a search engine called InfoSeek, an also-ran to Yahoo that became Go.On and on and on it went with acquisitions and more: Kaboose.com, Babble.com, AmazingMoms.com and even one called Kerpoof.com. That maker of cartoon avatars and Kerpoof Koins went, as did most of these efforts, kerpoof. And more: There were toys and games, and toys-to-games, and so many names and name changes of its digital units: Disney Online, Disney Interactive, Buena Vista Internet Group, Disney Interactive Studios, Disney Interactive Media Group …Along the way, there were layoffs, lots of them, even as the company kept at it, spending enough money to make Scrooge McDuck scream, as well as placing lots of investment bets. They included $400 million in Vice Media, which Disney wrote down this year to nothing, and a 2014 purchase of YouTube-focused Maker Studios for $675 million.But Mr. Iger persisted. I’ve always admired his attitude compared to the other legacy-media moguls who were openly disdainful of the internet for far too long.“I have tried to keep two obvious philosophies,” he said to me in 2010. “First, that our current business not get in the way of adopting new technologies, and, second, that our business belongs on these new platforms.” And a year later in another interview, he noted: “I’m not in the camp that believes that Netflix is going to take over the world. Technology makes it impossible to have a monopoly.”And now that same belief is what remains, and it’s the driver of Disney Plus, at about $7 a month a streaming service intended to undercut Netflix with its $13 price tag. It includes originals from Marvel, Pixar, Lucasfilm (a.k.a. Star Wars), National Geographic and all of the shows it acquired in buying Fox Studios (“The Simpsons,” of course), as well as the trove of Disney classics. It is also including its more adult-themed Hulu and sports ESPN Plus streaming services in a $12 bundle. There are discounts and partnership deals to try to muscle Disney into a market that also includes Apple, Amazon and soon a larger AT&T WarnerMedia effort (there is already HBO Go).It’s all pretty fantastic, which is why this is finally perhaps the moment that Disney gets to gorge, as it concentrates on exploiting its content and stops chasing other tech dreams it could never be good at.But make no mistake, it’s turned out to be a pricey lunch, as it will continue to be. The budget for “The Mandalorian” is reportedly $15 million an episode, for example.That said, that single first show saw two million streams on its first day. Kerpoof? Hardly. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement