Thanksgiving is coming up, which means it’s our once-a-year opportunity to stuff ourselves to a ridiculous degree, all while saying how much we’re going to regret this later as we simultaneously insist that little Billy tries some of Grandma’s green bean casserole. Thanksgiving dinner is a good meal. Obviously; there’s gravy. But to a kid? It’s a whole tableful of lumpy foods they don’t typically eat in varying shades of beige. Take stuffing, for example. Back when my husband and I lived across the country from our families, we used to have Thanksgiving with a bunch of friends. And one of those friends made an apple sausage stuffing that will forever remain in my Top Five Favorite Dishes of All Time. But, if I’m being truly honest, it looks like dog puke. I have never needed marshmallows on my yams (or sweet potatoes, depending which tuber you grab).…Mashed potatoes are fine, but would a kid rather have his potatoes sliced length-wise, fried and salted? Of course he would. I know that sweet potato casserole recipe has been in the family for four generations, but a kid is looking at it with fresh eyes and asking herself, “Why would they ruin marshmallows?”There is such a focus on the food at Thanksgiving because it’s a holiday that is completed centered around this one oddly specific meal. There is so much prep time involved because it’s supposed to be a labor of love, and that love is supposed to be consumed to excess. But, as Crystal Karges, a registered dietitian nutritionist, tells the New York Times, all of that tradition and preparation can cause us to have unrealistic expectations for our kids. To them, it’s just another meal. And if the only thing appealing to them is the basket of rolls or a plateful of mashed potatoes, it’s fine. One extremely carby meal  isn’t going to hurt them:“Even our pickiest eaters have the ability to self-regulate what they need to eat, and their bodies’ innate cues are largely guiding their food choices,” Karges explained. “No one meal or one day is representative of anyone’s nutritional intake. If they eat a carbohydrate-rich meal today, they’ll likely balance it out over the next few days by gravitating towards other food groups.”Feeding children can be a struggle. When our kids were toddlers, my neighbor and I would trade…We also send our kids some wildly mixed messages about food consumption on this one particular holiday. We put on the “stretchy” pants and chastise ourselves not stopping at “seconds” even as we continue on for “thirds.” We’re talking about how much we’re overdoing it while egging our kids on to eat more.Even if you decided long ago that you were not going to care whether or not your kid ate their fair share of corn, other relatives may take that task upon themselves. Make sure your kids understand ahead of time that they can politely decline anything they don’t want with a simple, “No, thank you.” If someone keeps pushing it, you can swoop in to redirect: “I’ve told Billy it’s okay for him to choose what he likes; we’re just grateful we can all be together.”Because although it might seem like the food is the point, it’s really the gathering for the food that is the point. And the gathering can be done and memories can be made with a plate full of all the fixins or two fistfuls of bread. Meet the smartest parents on Earth! Join our parenting Facebook group.Lifehacker Parenting Editor