by AtiyaThe latest Tesla update for users with the Full Self-Driving package brought useful new AutoPilot features to Tesla cars; including the ability to see and respond to traffic cones while in AutoPilot mode.“The driving visualization now displays traffic cones. In cases where a traffic cone is detected and Navigate on Autopilot is engaged (requires Full Self Driving Capability), the vehicle is designed to suggest a lane change (or attempt a lane if REQUIRE LANE CHANGE CONFIRMATION is set to NO) to avoid cones. As always, you are responsible for your vehicle and are required to pay attention at all times.”Now, courtesy of Tesla hacker verygreen, AKA ‘green the only’, we can see the road through the eyes of a Tesla in autopilot mode.  In the second video, we can see how Tesla readjusts the drivable area based on the obstacles in the construction site:compare to AP: pic.twitter.com/5HcTSXYnhW— green (@greentheonly) November 7, 2019Tesla owners report that at present not all cones appear to be recognized by Tesla Autopilot (though this will improve over time), making the warning that drivers should always remain aware and in control of their car at all times even more important.Even though the feature still needs some perfecting, it still looks promising in its early stages- indicating that it won’t be long until the autopilot feature makes its debut in city roads.Source: Electrekby Raka on November 12, 2019by Rakaby Sururby Rakaby SururIn September Amazon announced a slew of devices that expands all nooks and crannies of the Amazon Echo ecosystem, with one of the most popular likely being the Amazon Echo Show 8, for which ...Amazon is not waiting until Black Friday to offer deep iPad Pro discounts at their web store. Today you can get the latest 12.9-inch iPad Pro with 256GB storage for just $949.99, $199.01 off...Dell has released its list of Black Friday deals to help get the holiday shopping season kickstarted. Starting with the easy to throw into a carry-on Dell XPS 13 2-in-1, announced only in Ma...Microsoft is now offering a deal on its Surface Go that’s specially tailored to families with tech-savvy kids. Starting from $440, you can build a “Surface Go Kids Bundle”,...The most interesting mainstream laptop of the last 12 months is still the HP Spectre Folio. Dressed in leather, the high-end laptop can be a tablet, laptop or turn into a presentation tent m...Apple’s Powerbeats Pro with adjustable, secure-fit ear hooks, are on sale for $199.95- down from $249.95, making it a saving of 20%, or $50. The headphones offer up to 12 hours of list...In September, Lenovo announced seven new Yoga 2-in-1 Windows PCs and today the C940 range have become available for purchase. Lenovo made the following updates to Alexa on Yoga PCs: Lock Scr...A bit like the Surface Studio, Microsoft’s Surface Headphones have been universally lauded for its design, which combines both extreme comfort and ease of use. The headphones, which ar...In the run-up to Microsoft’s Surface event next month, Microsoft is running a big sale on the whole Surface range, from the Surface Go to the Surface Book. The Surface Go range is seei...Lenovo’s Miix 630 is one of the first Qualcomm Snapdragon-based Windows devices. The Windows 10 S 2-in-1 detachable comes with integrated 4G LTE for seamless connectivity, meaning you ...