Owners of older Samsung TVs and Roku sticks may need to find a new way to binge-watch their favorite shows on Netflix next month. Starting December 1, the streaming service will no longer be compatible with the Roku 2100x, Roku 2050x, some Samsung smart TVs from 2010 and 2011, and other devices that don't support autoplay, Lifehacker reports.Netflix hasn't shared many details about the reasons behind the change—just that they will result from "technical limitations." The issue seems to only impact devices that have trouble autoplaying episodes, so if you haven't noticed any content playing on its own while watching Netflix on your television, you may be affected.Autoplay is one of the Netflix's least popular features. While the service allows you to customize many aspects of your user experience, there's no way to disable autoplay on the homepage. This latest news suggests that Netflix is choosing to ignore the complaints and double-down on the autoplay feature—a decision that will likely frustrate many subscribers who can no longer watch Stranger Things on their otherwise perfectly-working devices.Netflix has yet to release an official list of the devices that will no longer support the app—just a warning that some users may see an error message that reads "Due to technical limitations, Netflix will no longer be available on this device after December 1, 2019." Fortunately, Samsung and Roku have been more forthcoming with details. Here's a list of some of the devices that will no longer be able to stream Netflix starting next month:Roku 2000C
Roku 2050X
Roku 2100X
Roku HD
Roku SD
Roku XD
Roku XR
2010 and 2011 Samsung TVs with a C or D in the model code[h/t Lifehacker]Apple’s iOS Health app is great for more than just checking how many steps you took during a lengthy walk in the park—it also stores health records from Johns Hopkins, Quest Diagnostics, Allscripts, and more than 400 other healthcare organizations.Now, Fortune reports that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has joined that list, making it easier than ever for military veterans who receive healthcare through the Veterans Health Administration to access all of their health records, including medications, immunizations, lab results, and other information. In the press release, Apple explains that the app will automatically update the records, so all veterans need to do is log into their providers’s patient portals through the Health app for a “single, integrated snapshot of their health profile whenever they want, quickly, and privately.”Though the official announcement coincides nicely with Veterans Day on Monday, the change itself has been in the works for several months—the VA released the new feature to certain patients over the summer.According to its website, the Veterans Health Administration is the largest integrated healthcare system in the country, servicing more than 9 million patients across 1255 healthcare facilities. With such an expansive network, any successful attempt to streamline processes and improve the flow of information—especially when it comes to sensitive, personal data—has the potential to be a major game-changer for veterans.“Helping veterans gain a better understanding of their health is our chance to show our gratitude for their service,” Apple COO Jeff Williams said in the press release. “By working with the VA to offer Health Records on iPhone, we hope to help those who served have greater peace of mind that their healthcare is in good hands.”Wondering what you can do to help veterans? Here are 11 honorable ideas.[h/t Fortune]Despite many of the safety innovations found in new vehicles—rear cameras, rear blindspot sensors, automatic braking—the basic chassis of a car remains a bit of a problem. Blocky pillars that give the vehicle structure and support can impair a driver’s ability to see past the four corners of the cabin. Now, we may finally have a solution.Alaina Gassler, an 8th grader from West Grove, Pennsylvania, won the grand prize at the Society for Science & the Public’s Broadcom MASTERS (Math, Applied Science, Technology, and Engineering for Rising Stars) science fair competition for her practical invention. Using a camera mounted outside of the car, an image of the environment is picked up and fed to an interior front-projection lens that displays the footage on the pillar, which has been covered in a retroreflective fabric. The result is almost an optical illusion, where the pillar appears to become transparent.
Gassler’s idea has yet to be evaluated by automobile manufacturers. Variables like heavy rain or snow could impair the camera’s field of vision, for example, and projected images might be difficult to see in broad daylight.Car manufacturer Jaguar introduced a similar pillar imaging system in 2014, but it has not yet gone beyond the prototype stage. Safety additions to vehicles are typically met with extreme scrutiny. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) helps set guidelines and enforce federal standards for these additions. Recently, they’ve been evaluating side- and rear-mounted cameras intended to replace rearview mirrors.For her creative and inexpensive solution, Gassler took home a $25,000 prize. It’s all the more remarkable considering that, at 14, she’s not yet even old enough to drive.[h/t Gizmodo]