Calculators are one of the few tools that have become just as useful online as they are off. Perhaps even more so, when you consider that we now have apps that can calculate more than just hard numbers.Online calculators do everything from help us manage our diet, figure out a loan payment to telling us the distance between two points. Whatever the equation, there’s likely a niche tool out there to provide answers.In that spirit, we’ve put together a collection of code snippets that calculate all sorts of things. Not only are they useful, but they also demonstrate the power of both CSS and JavaScript.Let’s start with the calculator we’re all familiar with. This snippet, built with React, is not unlike the pocket model many of us carried around in school. And it’s still useful. You don’t want to solve those equations on your own, right?See the Pen React Calculator by Michael JacksonAt first glance, the letters “VW” might make you think of the popular German cars. But in the web design space, VW stands for “Viewport Width”. It’s the percentage of the full width of a browser window. This calculator provides an easy way to find your VW. Enter the width of your design element and that of the viewport and see the result.See the Pen Here’s a simple way to calculate your body mass index (BMI). This is a combined measure of your height and weight. This calculation is then used to determine whether or not you are within a healthy range. This snippet takes your height (in inches) and weight (in pounds) and calculates BMI using Angular.See the Pen Angular BMI Calculator by Peter GirnusBuying a car is a pretty big deal. Before you head to the dealer, you might want to make sure that you can afford that monthly payment. Use this handy calculator, written in Vue.js, to determine various payment scenarios. The clever use of JavaScript also enables the totals to change on the fly.See the Pen Daily UI #04: Auto loan calculator using Vue JS by Bryan King (@brykng)When performing tasks such as cropping images, keeping the correct aspect ratio is important. Failure to do so can lead to some unpleasant distortion. This simple calculator takes the original size of an element on the top line. Then, as you enter the desired new width on the second line, it will automatically determine the correct height – thus keeping your ratio intact.See the Pen jQuery | Aspect Ratio Calculator by Tobias BoglioloIt’s pretty common practice these days to use the CSS REM unit for sizing text. REMs are relevant to the size of the root element. So, if your base font size is 16px, that is equal to 1rem. But calculations beyond that can be tricky. This handy converter will help you size things just right. Plus, it generates a snippet to that you can copy and paste into your stylesheet.See the Pen Pixel to REM calculator by Andy BellAs time goes on, it seems like CSS is becoming capable of some amazing feats. Take this CSS-only calculator. No, it’s probably not going to replace the fancy JavaScript options on this list. But it does show what’s possible with a little creative thinking. And that in itself is impressive.See the Pen From Integer Variable To Content: A basic pure CSS calculator by seto89For those looking to buy an electric vehicle, one of the biggest concerns is the driving range. This calculator will show how many miles you can drive various Tesla models on a single charge. It uses criteria such as speed, outside temperature, wheel size and whether or not the air conditioning system is in use.See the Pen Tesla Range per Charge Calculator in React / Redux by DELANIt just so happens that calculators and code go perfectly together. Languages such as JavaScript are quite reliant on math, so it’s only natural that developers are using it to build these types of apps.What’s really amazing is that we’re only scratching the surface when it comes to the types of calculators being built. To see even more examples, check out our CodePen collection.Join 40,000+ subscribers and get the latest design news and resources delivered directly to your inbox every week.