Tesla Superchargers.EVgo isn’t Tesla but it’s trying. First, a quick refresher. Slow charging (AC): To be clear, most charging takes place at home. You either plug into an existing 120-volt home socket or add a faster 24o-volt charger. The problem is, slow charging is also what you find today at most stores and public charging stations. That’s a problem* because a 240-volt charger will boost the battery range only modestly (at best) after 30 minutes of shopping. Typically, the rate is 25 miles added per hour. If you don’t have access to charging at home, like apartment dwellers, it’s a bad solution for getting a full charge. Fast Charging (DC): referred to as DC Fast Charging to differentiate it from slower AC charging, it is a very different animal. Fast charging delivers a lot of range (compared to 220- or 240-volt) in a short amount of time. After 30 to 60 minutes, you can add 50 to 100 miles, or more, of range.Tesla Supercharger: Tesla is even faster, typically adding several hundred miles in an hour or so. And Tesla is way ahead of everyone else because it has been adding Superchargers at a furious rate since 2012.  At last count Tesla had close to 15,000 chargers worldwide with the bulk of those in North America. Fast charging my Chevy Bolt in Palm Springs.EVgo, with more than 750 fast charging locations in the U.S., is the largest fast charging network outside of Tesla’s. And it’s in a hurry to add capacity. I talked to Jonathan Levy, EVgo’s Vice President of Strategic Initiatives, who leads its work developing charging infrastructure across the nation.As a backdrop to the discussion with Mr. Levy, I told him that the problem I face as a consumer is, when I need to fast charge (which is more than occasionally) I have to drive 10 miles to find just a couple of EVgo fast chargers.  And they’re often occupied. That’s despite living in an EV-dense area in northwest Los Angeles. And I do mean dense, even for EV-friendly Los Angeles. Many if not most of the new cars in my community are EVs. How soon can we get past slow public charging? Levy: While level 2 (240 volt) is important especially for workplace and home....it makes sense to have a fast charger where somebody’s going to spend 20 minutes or so. We’re constantly opening new stations. EVgo now has 300 fast charging stations representing about 700 fast chargers across California. So, when we’re looking to site we’re trying to be where they work, where they live, where they shop.Fast charging while you shop is still rare, what is EVgo doing? Levy: That’s what we’re doing today [adding fast chargers]. We have more than 1,200 [fast chargers] around the country. A high amount of them are in retail applications. We have 70 stations at Whole Foods across the country. We have new stations that opened at various Lucky’s [Market], we’ve opened at Trader Joe’s. We’ve opened stations [at traditional gas stations] like Chevron. The grocery store application is perfect because it aligns so well. Not just [for people] that have access to home charging but those who live in apartments that have no access to home charging. So, that’s [more fast chargers] is where we’re already going as a company. How long does it take to install a fast charger? A very heavy, ‘it depends.’ If we’re doing a transformer upgrade that takes longer than adding existing capacity at a site. If we need to trench or bore, it’s a huge difference in time. A general rule of thumb is you’re talking about six to nine months …that’s a reasonable time frame from a site contract through to interconnection.We’re trying to shrink that time and be quicker [and working closer] with both permitting authorities and the utilities is really important. (Levy added that the time it takes to install charging capacity in California can differ dramatically depending on which power utility EVgo is working with, with some taking twice as long as others.)My take:EVgo can’t add fast chargers fast enough. Yes, home is where most charging takes place. But I can’t count the times I’ve desperately needed a fast charge outside of home. And with a Chevy Bolt, I don’t have access to Tesla’s Supercharger network. More importantly, think about all of the people in the city (not necessarily having the disposable income to buy a $60,000 Model 3), who don’t have access to home charging. That’s a big roadblock to EV acceptance. ––NOTES: *I drive a Chevy Bolt and never take advantage of the Level 2 (240-volt) charging at my local Whole Foods. The battery charge pay off just isn’t worth it, especially if you have to wait to get access to the charger, which is often.I was a founding member of CNET news and hardware editor at CNET, a contributing technology reporter for the New York Times, and a reporter and editor at the Asian Wall