GettyThe big mergers and acquisitions (M&A) headlines right now are the potential knot-up between luxury goods makers LVMH and Tiffany (will they or won’t they?) and last week’s announcement that Google will buy Fitbit.Regardless what happens with those particular deals, though, another big but lesser-known story is the continuing strength of the U.S. manufacturing M&A market. While the industrial segment of the economy has suffered a gradual slowdown from late 2018 to now, consolidation in this corner of the world continues apace. Total transactions are down slightly for 2019 year to date, but average deal valuations are on par with the big numbers posted the past couple of years. Why?“It’s been a really active market,” said Matt Roberson, Director at SC&H Capital, a Baltimore investment bank specializing in M&A. “Interest rates are low, and companies and investors have cash to invest. Plus, there’s this sense that U.S. manufacturing is on the rise again, that offshoring is being reversed. Investors have been testing that thesis for a while already, and we see that they’re continuing this trend even in spite of recent trade headwinds vis-à-vis trade tariffs.”Current market fundamentals aren’t the only factor driving the continued strength in M&A in manufacturing, though. A number of other considerations come into play, including build vs. buy, food market realignment, geographic and customer base expansions, and moves driven by hot markets.GettyBuild vs. buy: When manufacturers want to supplement existing product lines, or move into whole new product areas, there’s always the question whether to build new production capacity or simply buy what currently exists. Particularly at times when capital investment dollars are tight, it’s much easier simply to purchase a company already doing what you want to do. “A good example of this is Tesla buying Hibar Systems,” said Roberson. Sometime in the past several months, the famed EV producer purchased the Ontario-based battery maker known for its high-speed automated production systems. “In this case, it’s not just about acquiring production capacity, but also a good illustration of buying needed expertise.”Food market realignment: It’s common knowledge that the big food CPGs are struggling with declining sales and lackluster brand image. In addition to their ongoing marketing efforts to revive the flagging fortunes of their core brands, these companies have been on the hunt for new brands to add to their product portfolios. “The bigs are buying the upstarts once they reach critical mass,” Roberson pointed out. “Usually it’s just about the product – the companies have plenty of capacity, so they purchase the brand and the intellectual property.” A good example from a year ago was Hershey’s acquisition of Pirate Brands, maker of healthier cheese puffs, which was folded into the new unit the chocolate maker had established a year earlier with their purchase of popcorn and tortilla chip maker Amplify Snack Brands. Those moves helped the confectioner pull in more health-conscious customers.Geographic and customer base expansions: Companies with a limited reach often look to M&A to either expand their geographic footprint or to grow their slate of potential customers. “We did a deal recently with a company that collects scraps and waste from food producers and makes them into animal feed,” Roberson said. “They had geographic constraints in their business and were looking for acquisitions that would allow them to move into new areas of the country.”Hot markets: M&A activity is always strong in business segments that are doing particularly well. “The Industrial Internet of Things and Industry 4.0 are driving a lot of consolidation right now,” said Roberson. “SaaS is very big right now. Critical software applications for manufacturers are a very ‘sticky’ area for their businesses, so buyers will pay higher dollars for companies in that market – they’ll offer higher multiples of revenue to land a deal.” So whether it’s Siemens acquiring Edge technology from Pixeom, or PTC buying Onshape, SaaS is driving substantial M&A movement.Health care is another strong area. “Medical device makers and medical products manufacturers are big too – the barriers to entry there are very high, so they have strong valuations as well.” Pet supplies are another strong market. “The pet space – whether it’s food, toys, clothes – it’s ridiculous!” Roberson said. “Millennials are leading the charge. People will spend huge amounts of money on their pets, and it’s driving really strong M&A activity in the space as a result.”GettyThe news of Google’s $2.1 billion purchase of Fitbit reflects a combination of these factors, fitting both the build vs. buy and hot markets categories. Google is snapping up a sizzling product in the hot market of health and fitness. At the same time, it’s greatly expanding its footprint in cutting-edge hardware for consumer technology, adding to its existing gadgetry offerings in smart phones, laptops, and speakers, as well Wear OS, its wearable operating system platform. Popular branded products in general can be a driver for M&A. “We’re seeing a lot of activity right now by co-manufacturers and co-packers to leverage the brands they produce,” said Roberson. “That can give them a real advantage – the association with the brands gives them strength for their own M&A activity.”Particularly in a down market, M&A can actually help companies with their growth. “I had a client, a quarter-billion dollar company, that had a small division that wasn’t getting a lot of their marketing attention and therefore struggled to grow,” Roberson explained. “The parent company sold the division off, and as a result of the new focus by the purchaser, a strategic buyer operating in the same space as the division it purchased. Now they have four times the growth they’d had previously.”The positive outcomes from M&A activity can help revive a business segment that’s struggling, or not achieving its full potential. “M&A is not a bad thing,” said Roberson. “It can help make a company stronger, or a popular product better. It’s one of the natural ways businesses have of improving their businesses, whether in strategic positioning, technology, or know-how.”I've spent decades in the "trenches" of manufacturing, focused on engineering, operations, and management. My career has taken me from plant floors to corporate boardro