 








        The Google Pixel 4 is $200 off for Black Friday when you buy the unlocked version.
      
Crystal Cox/Business Insider

Updated 11/29/19 at 4:20 p.m. ETGoogle makes some of the best smartphones and smart home devices, and luckily, many of them are on sale for Black Friday and Cyber Monday 2019.You can save on Google's latest Pixel 4 and Pixel 3a smartphones as well as the company's Nest smart speakers, smart thermostats, and security cameras at Target, Best Buy, Walmart, and B&H Photo.The deals are now live, so you can get shopping. We'll keep updating this page as deals are announced.The $400 off deals come straight from Best Buy, and while you will only get the discounts with qualified activation through Verizon, AT&T, or Sprint, if the conditions meet your needs then this could be an amazing deal. Even if they don't meet your needs, however, it's worth reading on for other discounts. The Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL have a Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 processor, along with 6GB of RAM and up to 128GB of storage. They also offer an upgraded camera, with a dual-sensor lens and features like the new Astrophotography Mode. They're among the best phones of the year — and with these deals, they're an even better choice.Best Buy, Amazon, and B&H Photo are also offering $200 off the unlocked Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL, so if you don't want to activate the phone with a new line, you'll be able to get the standard-sized Pixel 4 for $599 or the Pixel 4 XL for $699. If you don't want to spend the cash on a Google Pixel 4, but still want the smart features on offer by the device, then the Pixel 3a is an excellent option. The phone isn't quite as powerful as the Pixel 4, but it still offers an excellent camera, the smart Google Assistant features, and more. Best Buy, Amazon, and B&H Photo are all offering the Pixel 3a for $100 off, bringing it down to a starting price of a super impressive $299.99.Google has some other great deals on its Nest devices too. Namely, you can get some impressive discounts on security cameras like the Nest Cam IQ, as well as the Nest Hello doorbell and smoke alarms like the Nest Protect.The Nest Secure home security kit is available too, allowing you to have window and door sensors in your home to keep better track of potential intruders.Safe to say, if you're looking to lock down your home, it's well worth considering the deals below. These deals will be available through December 4.Nest may make a ton of great home security products now, but the company started out making smart home devices like thermostats. Now, you can get the Nest Learning Thermostat and the cheaper Nest Learning Thermostat E at a discount.On top of that, Google has discounted some awesome smart speakers like the new Nest Mini and the Nest Hub Max, giving you access to the ultra-smart Google Assistant at an affordable price.Last but not least is the Nest Wi-Fi router, which offers smart internet connectivity that you can easily control from your phone. These deals will be available through December 4 unless otherwise specified.The Chromecast is a great way to easily stream content from your phone or computer to your TV, especially if you're in the Google ecosystem. Chromecast devices work well with other smart Google devices, and the Chromecast Ultra even supports 4K video at HDR. These deals will be available through December 4.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.