








        Soko Glam Instagram
      

To kick off Cyber Week, Soko Glam is running a 30%-off sitewide sale now through December 1, 2019 — just apply the code "SGBF19" at checkout. Plus, if you spend more than $135, you'll receive a free branded jade roller.The sale excludes sets, gift cards, "The Little Book of Skincare," and the Then I Met You line, though these items still make great stocking stuffers. Soko Glam generally specializes in skin-care, but also has some hair-care and makeup brands on its roster. Regarded as the the Sephora of K-Beauty, the retailer is known for its curated 10-step K-Beauty routines, which help shoppers find a regimen for their skin type. Naturally, we love this site because it's a convenient hub offering the latest and coolest finds in K-beauty.These compact patches soak up pesky zits and blemishes overnight. They work best when a pimple has already come to a head, but can also be used to prevent you from picking at your skin. Acwell's toner balances all skin types. It's formulated with licorice water, green tea extract, and peony extract for a deep clean, and is a great alternative to toners with alcohol, which experts say can strip skin of moisture. Beauty media laud this ampoule as a coveted anti-aging solution. Thanks to collagen, a powerhouse protein, it minimizes fine lines and wrinkles to create the appearance of tighter, smoother skin. A Teen Vogue Acne Award winner, this cleansing stick is composed of natural oils that gently cleanse the skin and rub off residual makeup. It's TSA-friendly and exclusively sold at Soko Glam.These peeling strips will come in handy when you're on the go, as pollution can negatively affect skin. Packed with exfoliating acids, each strip targets pores and blackheads for clearer, tighter skin.It's important to wear sunscreen all year round, and Papa Recipe's lightweight formula makes it easy. It's fast-absorbing, smooth, and doesn't feel greasy after application. Repair brittle hair with this silky hair butter made of nourishing argan oil and shea butter. The process is simple: Lather your strands post-shampoo, wait for at least 10 minutes, and then wash out. It also doubles as a leave-in treatment. The glow sugar mask is soft in texture, especially compared to harsh scrubs. Infused with natural ingredients, this 10-minute treatment removes dead skin, leaving your complexion bright and calm.Solved Skincare's cleansing pads wipe away stubborn makeup and dirt with relative ease. Each pad is drenched in 100% virgin coconut oil, a type of fat that deeply moisturizes and protects skin.This essence preps skin for heavier serums and creams, removing trace amounts of makeup or dirt to help them absorb more easily. As an essential part of the skin-care routine, it brightens and nourishes thanks to ingredients such as glycolic acid and lactic acid. Missha's BB cream offers lightweight coverage, balancing skin tone without feeling heavy on your face like thicker foundations.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.