A Canadian man is being called the "Robin Hood of nugz" after revealing he put an extra chicken nugget in 10-piece boxes for years. Former McDonald's worker Cody Bondarchuk from Edmonton, Alberta revealed in a tweet that he snuck 11 nuggets into almost every 10-piece box he made in the two and a half years he spent at the fast-food chain from 2007 to 2009.  "Some of my coworkers did it too, and we would try to do it whenever possible (when a manager wasn't around). It was only four or five of us," Bondarchuk told Insider. The viral post has since attracted nearly 900,000 likes and 80,000 retweets since it was posted on Saturday, November 16, with social media users saluting his small act of rebellion.One person tweeted: "Not all heroes wear capes, just name tags."Another dubbed Bondarchuk "The Robin Hood of nugz."Explaining the motivation in wanting to give an extra nugget, Bondarchuk told Insider: "You often hear stories about people missing a nugget or a thing of fries or sauce packs, so my coworkers and I wanted to do something to make people smile."His good deeds went unpunished, too, as he said he "never got caught, although I'm sure my former managers aren't thinking too highly of me right now."Responding to one Twitter commenter who asked: "Is there a statute of limitations on grand-theft-nuggets?" Bondarchuk said: "I hope so because I calculated it and would owe Ronald about $1,600." Having worked at the Castle Downs location in Edmonton, Alberta Bondarchuk replied to another tweet explaining that the McDonald's franchise was mostly a drive-thru location so he cannot remember if any customers expressed thanks after finding an extra nugget. "We never heard from the customers, sadly! I think when people get a bonus nugget they think it's a counting error, and we were happy to let them think that," he told Insider. The exposure of Bondarchuk's secret inspired others to come forward with stories of everyday heroism in their own places of work. As Bondarchuk responded: "EACH AND EVERY ONE OF YOU DESERVES THOSE BONUS NUGGETS." Read more:I tried McDonald's in 10 countries and here are the biggest differencesWe tried 11 McDonald's menu items in South Africa that you can't get in the US. Items like jalapeño sauce and Chicken McBites came out on top.I tried every single dessert at McDonald's and ranked them from worst to bestI tried every single breakfast at McDonald's and ranked them from worst to best."Bizarre and beloved McDonald's menu items you may never see againLike what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
