Have an existing account?Already have a subscription?Don't have an account?Get the newsLet friends in your social network know what you are reading aboutBerrien County Health Department officials said Monday the victim was one of two people who contracted the mosquito borne virus.A link has been sent to your friend's email address.A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
                                            Welcome to our new and improved comments, which are for subscribers only.
                                            This is a test to see whether we can improve the experience for you.
                                            You do not need a Facebook profile to participate.
                                        
                                            You will need to register before adding a comment.
                                            Typed comments will be lost if you are not logged in.
                                        
                                            Please be polite.
                                            It's OK to disagree with someone's ideas, but personal attacks, insults, threats, hate speech, advocating violence and other violations can result in a ban.
                                            If you see comments in violation of our community guidelines, please report them.
                                        ST. JOSEPH, Mich. — Michigan health authorities are reporting a 6th fatality linked to Eastern Equine Encephalitis.Berrien County Health Department officials said Monday the victim was one of two people who contracted the mosquito borne virus. The death occurred Saturday.WNDU-TV in South Bend, Indiana identified the deceased as Jim Whitright of Eau Claire, Michigan. Whitright was a farmer and died at Memorial Hospital in South Bend, according to WNDU.WNDU also reports that Whitright's "fellow Eau Claire farmer Bill Teichman, owner of Tree-Mendus Fruit Farm" also contracted EEE during late summer. Teichman, however, "has been home for three weeks and is stable, exhibiting slight improvements in movement in speech."Cases of Eastern Equine Encephalitis first appeared in West Michigan at the end of August. The virus has been reported in Barry, Berrien, Calhoun, Cass, Kalamazoo and Van Buren counties. The outbreak has resulted in 10 human cases and 46 animal cases.Dr. Joneigh Khaldun of the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services says the risk from the virus continues because there hasn’t been a sustained period of freezing temperatures. He says residents in the affected areas should continue to take precautions against mosquito bites.Man confesses to killing girlfriend's husband with an ax: 'I didn't plan on hurting him'Things are still raw inside Michigan Central Station — but progress is happening