Toronto’s bench unit came alive along with the team’s defense to spark a second half run that halted the Lakers’ seven-game winning streak.With Kyle Lowry out for the next two weeks and Serge Ibaka out indefinitely, the Toronto Raptors were shorthanded coming into Sunday night’s game against the Lakers. On top of that, LA entered the contest on a seven-game winning streak behind Anthony Davis and LeBron James after dropping their opening night game against the Kawhi-led Los Angeles Clippers. The stage was set for a disaster for Toronto.Before the game, coach Nick Nurse had some choice words when discussing the injuries and the bench as reported by Josh Lewenberg:Nurse: "We all didn't think we were very deep at all a couple weeks ago. I've been saying we got 8 guys I really like and 3 guys are missing. So I'm gonna have to start liking a few more guys here pretty quickly. This is their chance."Boy, Nurse might be liking a few more guys on his squad after this game.The Raptors started out hesitant and looked out of sorts, falling behind early. Of course, this made sense given the new starting lineup and absence of Lowry. Yet, the Lakers looked timid at times too, with LeBron seemingly looking for assists over points. Despite the slow start with some turnovers, the Raptors somehow only trailed by a point after the first quarter courtesy of folk hero, Matt Thomas, who finished the quarter with a very timely five points.At the end of the first quarter, the Raptors had ten bench points to the Lakers’ four, which would be a sign of things to come. The Raptors mostly trailed the Lakers in other significant categories, especially points in the paint, with LA up on the Raptors 22 to eight thanks to efforts from Davis, JaVale McGee, and even Dwight Howard.Starting in the second quarter, Fred VanVleet kept the Raptors in the game for a short while, but the Lakers picked up the pace and garnered a larger lead. Toronto needed Fred, who finished with 23 points, ten assists, and seven rebounds, because Pascal Siakam was extremely cold to start this game and entered halftime only 3-of-13 from the field, including 0-of-5 from three, for a total of eight points. To slow the Lakers, coach Nurse also flipped the Raptors into a 2-3 zone for much of the second quarter. It worked initially but also allowed Troy Daniels to hit numerous outside shots.Going into the half, the Lakers held a 60-51 lead with their bench outscoring the Raptors’ reserves by 13 points. But whatever Nurse said to the Raptors in the locker room, please liquify it and shoot it straight into my veins. The Raptors started the third quarter with blistering defense and started gaining steam on the Lakers with — of all things — their bench unit. Chris Boucher was all over the defensive glass and contested numerous shots at the rim (including those of LeBron and AD) for a total of three blocks to go with his 15 points. Meanwhile, Terence Davis showcased his quick feet and ability to breakdown a defense with sharp pocket passes. He’d go on to finish with 13 points, five rebounds, and three assists.The bench’s tenacity seemed to energize Siakam, who started heating up near the end of the third quarter on his way to a 24-point night to go with 11 rebounds and four assists. We also all got to witness him blow by three-time All-Defensive Team member, Anthony Davis:NO ONE IS SAFE AROUND @pskills43 pic.twitter.com/p1vYqSxpTUSimilarly, even Rondae Hollis-Jefferson was getting into the mix. He bodied up LeBron continuously and battled down low on the offensive end to the tune of ten points (with one tremendous fadaway jumper in there). One of the players that was perhaps in Nurse’s doghouse may have just broken through.And for a bit of comedy, Nurse finally won his first coaching challenge by reversing a foul called on Siakam as LeBron barreled towards the basket. Nurse literally celebrated with hugs to his coaching staff as Lowry raised his arms gleefully. Nurse may have even hugged a random Lakers fan sitting court side. Coach Nurse has no filter.Hugs all around for Nick Nurse after he won his coaching challenge   pic.twitter.com/ONu7bVq62VAlthough there were smiles going around afterward, the game started getting a little chippy with players jawing back and forth after whistles. All in all, the Raptors held the Lakers to only 18 points in that frame, and by its end the game was tied at 78.To start the fourth, the Toronto bench continued to show life and Nurse stuck with them for the majority. As a result, the Raptors somehow built their largest lead of the game — 12 points. But LeBron and Davis weren’t going to go quietly. It was LeBron, notching another triple-double on the season, who made numerous plays with dribble-drives and finding open players on the wing that got LA back into it. Toronto’s lead got as small as four with two minutes to play.But then Nurse reinserted the starters and they used the spark from the bench to close out the fourth with a couple of breakaway baskets that sealed the game for the Raptors. Overall, it was a heroic effort from the entire team, and one of the more fun regular season games we’ve seen in awhile. Now we just have to wonder if this is an aberration or a sign of things to come while Lowry and Ibaka are out.At the end, the formerly thin Raptors bench scored 43 total points with 38 coming from the Boucher-Hollis-Jefferson-Davis trio. And while Siakam had a rough start to the night, he proved to be a steady hand down the stretch, making big plays when it mattered on both ends of the court.Now the Raptors have to prepare to take on Kawhi Leonard and the L.A. Clippers tomorrow, which should prove to be another emotional game. If nothing else, we’ll get our answers about the bench sooner than later against another Western Conference favorite. Until then, the Raptors can relish in the grit and resiliency they showed tonight against a quality opponent. 