2019 saw the release of numerous buzzed-about Netflix original shows — whether it was the new season of "Stranger Things" or devastating limited series "When They See us," the streaming service garnered a lot of attention this year. Shows like "Orange Is the New Black" and "Black Mirror" unsurprisingly caused a lot of chatter on social media, as well as plenty of streams. And lower-profile shows like "You," starring Penn Badgley, and animated teen comedy "Big Mouth" were also big hits with subscribers. To figure out which shows made the strongest impressions on viewers this year, Insider worked with Parrot Analytics, which analyzes ratings data (where available), social media chatter, blogging, and illegal pirating, among other factors, to figure out the viewer demand for shows. Here are the 20 most talked-about shows on Netflix in 2019 — so far. The drama focuses on a charming bookstore owner who meets an aspiring writer — and quickly takes things to the next level."You" first premiered on Lifetime, but became an unexpected hit when it was added to Netflix last year. The second season premieres on December 26.Adult animated sitcom "Big Mouth" follows suburban teenagers on the outskirts of New York as they navigate puberty and high school hierarchies. Also in the mix are the "hormone monsters," who act as the hypersexualized consciences of many of the teens. The serial killer-centric show is produced by "The Social Network" director David Fincher, and is based on a true-crime book about the FBI's behavioral science unit. "Jessica Jones" is set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and follows Jessica (Krysten Ritter) as she comes to terms with her superhero identity and reconciles with her past. The show's diverse cast, skilled performances, and original story lines have all been praised by critics. The show starts with the mass murder of most of the US government — and follows Kiefer Sutherland's character Thomas Kirkman as he becomes president and grapples with the pitfalls of his new position. The concept of "Dark" can be hard to explain succinctly, but the show focuses on three generations of a family in Germany, and a time-travel conspiracy that slowly begins to unfold. "Dark" is frequently compared to "Stranger Things," due to its exploration of alternate dimensions and intricate story lines.The show is in Spanish, and was originally intended to be a limited series before Netflix ordered more episodes. Much of the drama on "The Punisher" is a direct result of events on "Marvel's Daredevil." The show follows five queer men — Tan France, Antoni Porowski, Bobby Berk, Karamo Brown, and Jonathan Van Ness — as they travel across the country and make over people in need. The fourth season of the show was released this year, and takes place in Kansas City, Missouri. A special season in Japan also just debuted.Kiernan Shipka plays teenage Sabrina Spellman, a half-human, half-witch fighting the evil forces in her town. The show is based an Archie comic book series of the same name. The show, which portrays the arrest and trial of the Exonerated Five, was nominated for numerous awards this year. The show also ties into "Marvel's the Punisher," since they both take place in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. While the first few seasons of the show were set in Escobar's native Colombia, the fourth season was set in Mexico, and introduced a whole new cast of characters. A group of misfit superheroes come to terms with their powers in this comic book adaptation. "Black Mirror" is a dystopian anthology series that explores the sinister effects of technology and modern advancements. The show is based on a 2007 novel that revolves around a deceased high school student and her group of friends. The critically acclaimed show was also beloved by fans, and follows a inmate named Piper as she adjusts to her life in prison and navigates personal relationships behind bars. "Lucifer" features characters originally created by author Neil Gaiman, and explores what it would mean for the devil to actually have a soul. The hit show follows a group of teenagers in 1980s Indiana as they confront nefarious forces from an alternate dimension (called the Upside Down), and also come to terms with themselves as they enter young adulthood. Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
