Hillary Clinton had a secret meeting with Meghan Markle and Prince Harry at their Frogmore Cottage home on Tuesday, the Mail Online reports. "Both women have a lot of admiration for each other and it was a very sweet, warm meeting," an anonymous source told the publication's royal correspondent Rebecca English."They are mutual fan girls!" the source added.It was the Duchess of Sussex who reached out to the former First Lady and asked her to visit the family in Windsor, according to English. She adds that the source told how Clinton even got the chance to cuddle with baby Archie during the meeting.Buckingham Palace did not respond to Insider's request for comment. However, it's common knowledge that the pair have been longtime supporters of one another.Markle wrote a letter to Clinton when she was just 11 years old asking her to help amend a sexist advertisement for dishwater soap — something that sparked her activism for gender equality.Clinton, meanwhile, praised Markle for "representing the US in the UK" with the release of her charity clothing line earlier this year.A post shared by  Hillary Clinton (@hillaryclinton) on Sep 6, 2019 at 10:46am PDTSep 6, 2019 at 10:46am PDT
 "I'm so inspired by how Meghan Markle — aka one half of @sussexroyal — is representing the U.S. in the U.K. and on the world stage," she wrote on Instagram."Meghan's new project: Helping @SmartWorksCharity equip women who have been out of the workforce with the office essentials they need to feel confident in job interviews and beyond."The ability to earn their own paycheck is a key part of women's economic, social, and cultural equality, and it can all start with some smart suits," she added.More recently, Clinton spoke out about the "inexplicable" media treatment the duchess has received at the hands of the British tabloids — and she said she thinks racism could be partly to blame."Well, I think if the explanation is that she's biracial, then shame on everybody," she said. "It's certainly part of it."She expanded on this during an interview with BBC Radio 5 Live, where she said that she wanted "to hug her.""To think that some of your — what we would call mainstream — media actually allowed that to be printed in their pages, or amplified, was heartbreaking and wrong," she said."She is an amazing young woman, she has an incredible life story. She has stood up for herself, she has made her own way in the world. And then she falls in love, and he falls in love with her, and everybody should be celebrating that because it is a true love story."I feel as a mother I just want to put my arms around her," she added. "Oh my God, I want to hug her. I want to tell her to hang in there, don't let those bad guys get you down."Read more:Hillary Clinton blames racism for Meghan Markle's 'inexplicable' treatment by the mediaPrince Harry and Meghan Markle just shared a never-before-seen photo of baby Archie with his 'Grandpa' Prince Charles to celebrate his birthdayMeghan Markle and Prince Harry confirmed they're spending their first Christmas with Archie in the US7 times Meghan Markle was a feminist icon, from calling out sexism in 'Suits' to sending notes to sex workersOur Royal Insider Facebook group is the best place for up-to-date news and announcements about the British royal family, direct from Insider's royal reporters. Join here.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
