 








        Business Insider
      

Black Friday isn't for several weeks, but some stores are already providing sneak peeks and ads with their upcoming deals. Best Buy just put out its Black Friday ad, so we've added a few great Best Buy Black Friday 2019 deals to this guide. We'll be updating this page as Best Buy's Black Friday deals go live on November 28. In the meantime, here are some of the best deals we'll see on Black Friday and some more information about the upcoming holiday. Google's newest flagship phone debuted just a month ago, but you can already get it for a 50% discount this Black Friday. Our reviewer found that the Pixel 4 was a solid phone that wasn't quite worth its $800 MSRP — so it's a much better purchase with this deal.    Ultra-budget TV shoppers can get this 32-inch set for just $79.99 this Black Friday. It delivers a decent picture with a good contrast ratio — and it's got a nice design too. If you're looking for a larger budget TV, this 65-inch set from Hisense will be on sale for 40% off. It delivers a vibrant picture with a 4K UHD resolution, runs Android TV with more than 1,000 smart apps, and works with Google Assistant. Vizio's P-Series is one of our favorite affordable TVs. For $899.99, you'll get an impressive display that supports a wide range of HDR content and a 120Hz panel that's great for gaming.  If you're looking for a premium TV that doesn't break the bank, check out this $200 discount on Samsung's Q70. It delivers an excellent image that's about as close as you can get to an OLED panel at this price point.       When the Pixel Slate debuted last October, many reviewers felt it wasn't good enough for its $599-$999 price tag. At $449, though, it's a more justifiable purchase. It has a nice display, a compact design, and a full desktop browser in Chrome OS. It's never sold for less.If you've been eyeing Microsoft's brand-new Surface Pro 7, the base model will see its lowest price yet this Black Friday. It sports a sharp display and a long-awaited USB-C port. If you buy it with Microsoft's Type Cover (or a third-party Bluetooth keyboard), it functions as a great laptop as well.   Black Friday isn't generally a great time to buy new consoles (such as the Switch Lite), but devices like the Xbox One S often see great discounts (including this one). This is the lowest price we've seen for the One S, beating out last year's best Black Friday offers.    We highly recommend this KitchenAid mixer, which offers 10 speeds and comes with a polished stainless-steel bowl. The Instant Pot Duo is our favorite multicooker on the market. It's a super easy way to prepare quick meals, and can accommodate ribs, soups, beans, rice, poultry, yogurt, desserts, and pretty much anything else you might be craving. The $35 matches the best Black Friday deals we saw last year.      Canon's Rebel T7i is a few years old, but many reviewers have praised it as one of the best entry-level DSLRs. It has a 24-megapixel resolution and features a super smooth autofocus using Canon's Dual Pixel AF system. Tom's Guide named this camera the best DSLR under $1,500. With a 20-megapixel resolution, 4K video capabilities, a responsive touchscreen, and many other advanced features, it's a good Black Friday buy for photography enthusiasts, especially at a $600 discount.   This app-controlled robot vacuum can clean both your carpets and your hard floors. It runs for up to 120 minutes and works with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant. This is the best Black Friday deal we've seen on this vacuum in the past few years. If you want a Roomba but the price tag turns you off, this is your chance to get one at a big discount. The mid-range Roomba 890 features Alexa and Google Assistant compatibility as well as app control. This is our favorite robot vacuum under $600. It has stronger suction than most robovacs and learns your floorplan so it can clean more efficiently each go. It's so easy to set up that we had it running in just 10 minutes.   This is our favorite cordless vacuum. It's lightweight, and very powerful for a cordless device.  These earbuds, designed for runners and athletes, are a great budget purchase. They're water-resistant, easy to control, and sport a decent 9-hour battery life.   If you're looking for true wireless headphones under $100, these are a good pick. They sound good, feel comfortable, and won't fall out of your ears, according to reviews.   These over-ear headphones support both Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant (though they don't work hands-free). They also deliver excellent sound, with adjustable EQ and ambient listening modes to optimize your music to your surroundings. $74.99 is the lowest price we've seen on this headset.       Now that Google's new Nest Mini has debuted, the previous-generation Google Home Mini is seeing serious discounts. The Nest Mini is the best budget Google Assistant speaker on the market, and the Home Mini has most of the same features.  This smart garage hub allows you to open and close your garage door using your phone. It's a nifty gadget for any smart-home enthusiast.  Amazon frequently discounts its 5-inch smart display, but this is the lowest price we've seen on the device.  This isn't super advanced, as smart thermostats go, but it's a great basic model at an affordable price. It has a large touchscreen display, is easy to install, and works with Alexa, Google Assistant, Samsung SmartThings, and IFTTT. This is our favorite smart lock currently on the market, and it's never sold for less. It works with Nest, SmartThings, Alexa, Google Assistant, and HomeKit, and it offers geofencing and a number of other advanced features.   SimpliSafe is our favorite home security system. It includes a motion sensor, four entry sensors, a keypad, a base station, and a 720p security camera. At a $120 discount, it's a great buy.   The Ring Video Doorbell Pro is one of the best video doorbells, and it comes with a Chime Pro and Echo Show 5 smart display in this discounted bundle. You'll be able to use the Show 5 to monitor the doorbell's video feed from inside.      Amazon recently released its Fire TV stick 4K, so its predecessor (the Fire TV Stick) is now available at a solid discount. It's a solid streaming device if you're not looking for 4K resolution. This Roku is our favorite streaming device. It supports 4K video and HDR content and can connect to any streaming service you need, including Netflix, Hulu, Amazon, HBO, and more.     CNET called the Clip 3 "a top-notch waterproof travel speaker." It offers a great sound and a whopping 10 hours of battery life. We named this the best affordable Bluetooth speaker. It's available in a range of colors, sports simple volume and playback controls, and can connect to two devices at a time. Most importantly, it sounds great with powerful bass.   Our reviewer called this speaker "one of the best purchases I've ever made." It's waterproof and durable enough to handle countless drops and jostles, and can connect to other UE Boom speakers for a surround-sound or multi-room experience. $69.99 is significantly cheaper than any price we've seen on this device so far. This is an excellent speaker with balanced, powerful sound. It has 20 hours of battery life at low volume and sports a USB port to charge your phone as well.  Soundbars are usually thought of as a luxury purchase, but they don't have to be, especially on Black Friday. You'll be able to grab this one from JBL at a significant discount; it includes 6 2-1/4-inch mid-range drivers and 3 1-1/4-inch tweeters, as well as a wireless subwoofer with a 10-inch driver.    Yes, Best Buy does offer Black Friday deals. You can see Best Buy's Black Friday ads here. Keep an eye on this page for up-to-date deals and sales. In stores, Black Friday will begin whenever your local Best Buy opens on November 29. Online deals will begin at 12 a.m. on Black Friday (November 29) and run around the clock. Best Buy will likely offer early Black Friday deals throughout the preceding week (including Thanksgiving).  The Best Buy Black Friday sale will take place online, as well as in stores. You can find a number of Black Friday deals on Best Buy's website, and on its Black Friday 2019 page. Some Black Friday deals will be available just in stores, while others will be just online. Don't worry: All of the deals we're listing here will be available online. Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.