














By Waylon GalvezGames Tuesday (Mall of Asia Arena)3:45 p.m. – Vietnam vs Indonesia (M/Bronze)6p.m. –Philippines vs Thailand (W/Gold)8:15 p.m. – Philippines vs Thailand (M/Gold)Gilas Pilipinas used a big third quarter that turned a close semifinal match to a blowout victory over Indonesia 97-70 to push the Philippines to the gold medal match in the 30th Southeast Asian (SEA) Games Monday night at the Mall of Asia Arena.Gilas Pilipinas’ Troy Rosario slams the ball past Indonesian defenders during the men’s basketball in the 30th Southeast Asian Games at Mall of Asia Arena in Pasay, December 9, 2019. (MB Photo / Rio Leonelle Deluvio / Canon 1DX Mark II with 400mm f2.8 lens)Known to be a defensive specialist, Chris Ross came through big on offense with back-to-back three-point shots in the third quarter that sparked the national team’s offensive attack.Protecting a 39-28 lead at halftime break, the all-PBA national team outscored Indonesia 39-17 that gave the Nationals a confortable 78-45 advantage going to the final quarter.The national team was up 47-39 when Ross connected two consecutive triples, which ignited a 16-0 run for a 63-39 lead.Ross finished with 11 points, five rebounds and six assists, while Christian Standhardinger collected 14 points to lead a balanced attack, while Matthew Wright contributed 13 points, and Vic Manuel had 12 points.June Mar Fajardo, the reigning five-time PBA Most Valuable Player, had nine points and nine rebounds.The Philippines’ win arranged a gold medal match against Thailand, which won against Vietnam 101-95 in the other semifinal game. The battle for gold medal is set Tuesday at 8:15 p.m. at the same venue.The national team will be aiming for its 18th gold medal in 20 SEA Games.Gilas coach Tim Cone expects the game against the Thais to be a close one considering the way they pressure the ball, and switch it to half court zone defense – evident in the three games in the elimination and opposite Vietnam in the semifinal game.“They did a really good job with their pressure. We’ve got a day to prepare. They play different defense in terms of zone defense. It’s going to be difficult,” said Cone, who is eyeing his first gold medal as coach of the national team after a bronze medal finish during the 1998 Asian Games in Bangkok, Thailand.“We’ve got to defend them first and then get out in the open court. It’s going to be a struggle tomorrow. But we’re close to our goal. I’ve won few championships (in the PBA), but I’ve never won a gold medal,” added Cone.The game against Indonesia gave the Philippines – Cone and his coaching staff in particular – of what to expect when the stake gets higher since the Indonesians kept a close first period, which ended with the Filipinos up 24-20.Cone said Indonesia’s coach, Serbian Rajko Toroman – the coach of the original Smart Gilas Pilipinas from 2009 to 2011 – prepared his team well for the semifinal match.“The thing about these kind of tournaments and games is the more you play the teams scout you. He’s got his team prepared. He knew who are our shooters were,” said Cone.“He got plans for our big men and ball screen and attack our defense. It always gets harder. We didn’t really realize that, it took us halftime to realize that. They came to play.”Toroman, for his part, said that Indonesia lacked the talent, particularly at the middle to really compete against the Philippines. They were supposed to bring in a naturalized player, first was Denzel Bowles and then Lester Prosper – both former PBA players.The plans to have either one of them didn’t materialize.“I think we played well. We shot the three-point shot very well. We’re just looking for a big man and we know that Lester Prosper did not get his passport for the SEA Games,” he said.Nevertheless, the Serbian mentor still enjoys every time he visits the country, saying: “Every time I come here it’s always a celebration. I have a lot of friends. I think Filipinos respect what I did for Gilas.”Indonesia plays Vietnam for the bronze medal Tuesday afternoon.Scores:PHILIPPINES 97 – Standhardinger 14, Wright 13, Manuel 12, Ross 11, Pringle 9, Fajardo 9, Lassiter 7, Rosario 7, Slaughter 6, Aguilar 6, Ravena 2, Tenorio 1.INDONESIA 70 – Kokodiputra 20, Grahita 14, Dhyaksa 11, Joni 11, Gemilang 6, Sitorus 4, Oei 2, Kokasih 2, Wickasono 0.Quarters: 24-20; 39-28; 78-45; 97-70.Tags: #SEAGames2019, 30TH SEA GAMES, 30th Southeast Asian Games, Gilas Pilipinas, SEA Games, Southeast Asian Games