
                    TNW uses cookies to personalize content and ads to
                    make our site easier for you to use.
                    We do also share that information with third parties for
                    advertising & analytics.
                    Opinion, advice, and analysis by the TNW communityWhat would you like to read?
                            Marketing Director, Fractl —
                                    Amanda Milligan is the Marketing Director at Fractl, a prominent growth marketing agency that’s worked with Fortune 500 companies and boutique businesses alike. Throughout her content marketing career… (show all)
Amanda Milligan is the Marketing Director at Fractl, a prominent growth marketing agency that’s worked with Fortune 500 companies and boutique businesses alike. Throughout her content marketing career, she’s directly managed the creation of 200+ content campaigns, led the strategy for 20+ clients, and run the 30-episode podcast Ask Amanda About Marketing. She spoke at the 2019 SMX Advanced conference and at Pubcon Pro Las Vegas 2019.
Content might be made up of words, pictures, code, and video. But good content is also made up of some kind of human connection, as well — it addresses a concern, taps into an emotion, or bonds through some sort of commonality.Content is created by people and for people (sorry, I think this is starting to sound very Abraham Lincoln-y), so people should always be at the forefront when deciding what to write about and how. But how can you actually put that into action? Here are my favorite tactics.Content should be people-centric, but let’s not forget that brands should be too. And one way to achieve that through content is to showcase who the people are that make the brand mission come to life.Cava is a fast-casual Mediterranean restaurant chain. Look what’s above the fold on their about page.The three friends who came together to create this brand. You can see their faces. You can read about what inspired them.And it doesn’t end there. You can read employee spotlights on their blog. You can check out the stories of staff and brand advocates alike on their Instagram.Credit: CavaDo they feature their food? Of course — that’s the primary content. But they’re not hiding their people, either.When creating content for your brand, give your employees a voice. What makes them care about your brand objectives? What are they passionate about? What might they have in common with your potential customers?Then feature these stories on your blog, on social, in ads, or anywhere else that feels appropriate for your marketing strategy.When you’re marketing a brand, your primary goal is to speak to your potential clients and customers.Imagine if an acquaintance you met at a party once walked up to you, talked at you for 25 minutes and then asked if you wanted to give them $1,000.Unfortunately, a lot of brands communicate like this with their audiences. They talk at them without much thought into what they might actually want to hear.To create people-centric content, consider what your audience wants to know:This can even apply to more general top-tier link-building content. My team worked with FundRocket, which offers capital to small businesses, to create a content campaign that would be widely appealing.They considered: what might people who are interested in starting or running a business wonder about? After researching, they decided that retaining great talent was a concern and a priority for many business owners.Credit: UberSuggestSo they surveyed 1,000 full-time employees on what made them feel work-related pride, and the results were published in The Motley Fool, MSN, Glassdoor, Business.com, and more.Credit: The Motley FoolWhy? Because it resonated by relating to a common question. Identify these questions in your industry and find out how your brand can uniquely and thoroughly answer those questions.This is the easiest change to implement if you don’t do it already.Personally, one of my biggest pet peeves is when people don’t use contractions in their writing.People do not talk without contractions very often. When they are speaking, they are doing so quickly, and they can not communicate as naturally if they are separating each contraction into two words.(Seriously, wasn’t it a little weird reading that paragraph?)We need to let go of the advice of our English teachers of the past and start writing like we’re talking to people. There may be a few exceptions to this rule if you’re in a highly technical or academic space, but in general, people don’t want to stumble over clunky, artificial sounding language. They want to feel like they’re being spoken to by someone real.Credit: John DeereLook at how John Deere talks about commercial mowing parts. They use conversational language like addressing the reader as “you.” They use contractions. They even — *gasp* — started a sentence with the article “And.” As a result, it sounds like they’re actually talking to you rather than writing a research paper.Simple changes like this can make your content feel more accessible and approachable, which can go a long way in getting people to actually read and resonate with what you write.Whether you’re making some minor adjustments to your tone or changing your editorial calendar, you should absolutely consider making alterations to your strategy in order to make it more people-centric. By communicating more effectively with content that answers real questions and concerns, you’ll resonate with your audience more effectively and possibly start building real positive affinity for your brand. 
                                    Published November 27, 2019 — 11:00 UTC
                                
                                        November 27, 2019 — 11:00 UTC
                                    The Heart of Tech™Thank you!