
                    TNW uses cookies to personalize content and ads to
                    make our site easier for you to use.
                    We do also share that information with third parties for
                    advertising & analytics.
                    Gadgets for humansWelcome to CHEAP, our series about things that are good, but most of all, cheap. CHEAP!There are times when you see a product and think “I may buy it because it’s good for its price.” Then, there are some products that you just have to get when they’re discounted.Sony’s famous WH-1000Xm3 wireless noise cancellation headphones are one of those products. They’re currently on sale for just $278, down from $349. Believe me, you’re not going to regret anything after you make this purchase.A couple of months ago, when I got them just before I left for a journey to my home town which involved a flight and a bus ride, they turned out to be quite noisy, and thankfully, WH-1000Xm3’s fabulous noise cancellation helped me get some rest.These cans come with a sleek yet tough carrying case, a USB-C charging cable, a flight adapter, and a cable with a standard 3.5 mm audio connector to let you plug into any audio source.The company claims you can get 30 hours of playtime with a single charge. That’s enough for a long journey or a week’s worth of daily commutes.These are tried and tested headphones that are not on sale very often. Grab the deal while it lasts and get the WH-1000Xm3 wireless noise cancellation headphones for just $278 ($72 off).This post includes affiliate links to products that you can buy online. If you purchase them through our links, we get a small cut of the revenue.For more gear, gadget, and hardware news and reviews, follow Plugged on
            Twitter and
            Flipboard.
            
                                    Published November 27, 2019 — 11:46 UTC
                                
                                        November 27, 2019 — 11:46 UTC
                                    The Heart of Tech™Thank you!