It’s actually a good metric if you’re familiar with SAE’s autonomous ranking system. But to a layperson the differences between SAE Level 2 and 5 don’t mean a whole lot, despite offering completely different experiences. Automakers also have terms of their own, some of which could easily lead customers to believe their products are far more capable than reality allows.Automotive News recently published an op-ed calling for clarity, and it was so good, we felt inclined to share.Â From Automotive News:Bigelow suggests adopting terms proposed by Waymo CEO John Krafcik: “If every time someone talked about a ‘Level 2 system,’ they just said, ‘driver-assist system,’ then it’d be so much easier,”Â he said. “Maybe the definitional framework is wrong. … If you need a driver’s license, then you shouldn’t call it fully self-driving. If you need a driver’s license, call it a driver-assist.”Go ahead and keep the SAE designations for the industry, but consumers need a streamlined version if they’re ever going to have a clear understanding of what’s actually being offered. Yes, catchy names are part of doing business, but anything that could be construed as misleading (intentionally or not) really isn’t going to do automakers any favors in the long run. Consumers have already started to wise up to the limitations of present-day technologies. Calling something self-driving when it isn’t won’t stand forever.The best thing automakers can do is try and get ahead of it before people start getting outraged and begin making a big stink about it. It doesn’t take much effort to start a social media campaign, and we’ve certainly seen angry people out for blood over far less.[Image: Ford Motor Co.]There definitely should be revised terminology.Another factor not discussed here is the fact that (at least in Tesla’s case) the driver must accept the terms of Autopilot before engaging it.  Those terms spell out that the driver must be ready to resume control at any time, which is the definition of Level 2 autonomy.  This is why all wrecks under which occur with Autopilot operating are the driver’s fault.IMO, Level 2 (and maybe 3) should be banned.  I also don’t believe we’ll actually see Level 4 or 5 on the streets once the lawyers get involved.Elon Musk should be served with a cease and desist order to stop calling his feature “autopilot”. People believe it and are killing themselves and others. Besides, if his level 2 system requires a driver to hover their hands above the steering wheel, ready to take over, WHAT’S THE POINT?The problem is even when it’s called an assist system, people still trust it too much. I recently had to deal with a customer that was complaining about constant warnings to put here hands on the steering wheel even though they were. She would not apply any steering input, and let the car do everything. While the car was pretty decent, there are definitely inputs you need to be making to overrule the car while driving. This person on the other hand completely let’s the car take over.My latest company car also has the full suite of assistance aids. I have had it pick up something like road tar as the lane marker and cause the car to swerve. I had it try and pull me into the concrete barriers. If I left these systems to do the driving on their own, I would need video game style multiple lives, even in just the past month.Early autopilot in airplanes also required constant attention from the pilot. It’s also not “his level 2 system”.  All L2 systems require the driver be paying attention at all times.You must be logged in to post a comment.