The newest Mustang is here, like it or not.(Full disclosure: Ford flew me to Los Angeles to see the reveal of the Mach-E. The company fed and housed me for this event and several others related to the Mach-E and/or the Los Angeles Auto Show.)Available with rear- or all-wheel drive, the Mach-E will be offered in five trims. Range is up to 300 miles in the extended-range version and 0-60 times are expected to be as low as the mid-three-second range.A GT Performance edition will have an estimated 459 horsepower and 612 lb-ft of torque.In order to achieve a range of at least 300 miles, one must select a Mach-E with extended range and rear-wheel drive. Ford is targeting 332 horsepower and 412 lb-ft of torque for extended-range vehicles with all-wheel drive.Brembo brakes will be available, along with magnetic adaptive damping.Premium audio is available, and a flip-up armrest is supposed to make it easier for bag storage. An available fixed panoramic sunroof is coated to help keep the cabin cool in summer and warm in winter.The liquid-cooled, lithium-ion batteries feature 288 cells in the regular version and 376 in the extended-range cars. A charging unit comes with the vehicle, capable of adding 22 miles of charge per hour on a 240-volt outlet, according to Ford. The automaker claims the model’s factory nav system will help drivers find the nearest public charging systems, and that a DC fast charging station can add 47 miles of range to an extended-range, rear-wheel drive car in 10 minutes. A standard-range car can go from 10-percent range to 80 percent in 38 minutes.Those are the deets. Now here comes the rant.Will they even understand what the Mach-E is?[Images: Ford, Tim Healey/TTAC]Hey they made the ceiling out of one of those Nineties things with the metal pins that you put your hand/face into!Lol…
That photo was taken at the W hotel on Hollywood Blvd.
Its like a canopy of string lights.
Its a really cool place to hang out if you are ever in the area.“Will they even understand what the Mach-E is?”I’m waiting for the ad when the car is filled with Kardishians going to a party.  Caption: “The Mach-E delivers the Kardashians.”  I just hope StarTrek nerds are still here.That said, I watched the presentation.  Ford didn’t botch it.  I have some hope.“Keeping up with the Cardassians”Nooo! It is, it is; wrong it is wrong!Lets design a mediocre vehicle and hope that the heritage of our proper V8, RWD sports car can fool people into thinking the mom van is something special.The chances are that the Mach-E beat the V8 Mustang on the track.How well well does the V8 mustang keep up with a Tesla?Are you talking Burgerkingring times or quarter mile times? The P100D is a little quicker at under 10.5 and no word on how fast the GT500 laps the ‘ring since Ford doesn’t publish any record attempts at any track. You’ll have to extrapolate that from ZL1-1LE comparos when they arrive (it ran a 7:16). The P100D doesn’t have the endurance currently to handle a fast lap since it goes into limp mode around 8 miles into the run so you’ll have to wait for the Model S outfitted with plaid mode which in preproduction form supposedly runs the ‘ring in 7:12“Lets design a mediocre vehicle and hope that the heritage of our proper V8”Give me a break. This thing will out-accelerate and probably even outhandle most cars that have worn the Mustang badge. Zero to 60 in 3.5 seconds. How many past models of Mustang could keep up with that? The 2020 GT-500 is 760-hp and only 2/10’s of a second faster. I bet under most real-world conditions, the AWD in the Mach will probably beat the GT-500.The heritage of the very first Mustang, which had a 100-gross-horsepower straight six?Or the cherished Fox body, most of which were equipped with a wheezy Lima four?Whatever.Nice looking Hatchback. Maybe the Malibu Maxx was ahead of it’s time…Check out the side profile: the roof and rear spoiler are blacked out, disguising the rooflineNot just a vehicle – it’s a Rorschach test for enthusiasts. (What you see says at least as much about you as about the vehicle.)True ankit the Rorschach test. I have a strongly future-oriented disposition, and I think EVs are very cool.I’ve owned one V8, and felt it was an awful lot of sound and fury for nothing.  It was in a pickup truck, though.@ Luke42 well a V8 in a truck doesn’t tend to be all that fast since it lugs around a fair bit of weight and typically the truck engines are tuned for durability and more bottom end power since that fits their intend use better. The V8 cars tend to be a few ticks ( 2.5 to 3.0 seconds faster in the 1/4 ) faster which may or may not be impressive depending on your age and if you use a liter bike as the reference for fast or not.reserved mine.Awesome! I’m hoping they get a lot of reservations. If they do, it might encourage them to do a 2-door coupe car version. I’m also wondering if we might see a Shelby version with more motors and power?I think this will compete very effective with the Model 3. Model 3 is a good looking car but a little boring. The giant do-it-all iPad-instead-of-a-dashboard is polarizing with horrendous ergonomics. This is much better looking, a hell of a lot sportier, and appears to be more practical with a somewhat more upright driving position – something the people who can afford these toys will appreciate.
Remember the Pinto based Mustang! Nothing could be worse than that!I’m not a fan of the center tablet on the Model 3. I found it to be very busy, and it definitely distracts your eyes from the road just to note your speed. At least the S and X don’t do that.Specs look decent, it’s just a shame the actual thing doesn’t. At least black seems like it sort of hides the double chin front bumper.Very curious about exterior dimensions.  It’s really hard to tell from any of the pictures released so far how big it is.https://www.ford.com/cmslibs/content/dam/brand_ford/en_us/brand/suvs-crossovers/mache/3-2/pdf/CX727_Tech_Specs.pdfIt’ll compete very well against the Y. I don’t think the range is quite enough, nor the charging network enough, to sway me from getting a Y next year however.99kWh battery and 235 mile range on the GT? Who’s laughing at that joke? Model S is getting 370 miles of range with the same size battery, and the Y with a smaller battery will hit 280.I was surprised to read elsewhere that Ford intends to build its own 12,000 site charger network.That’s impressive, but it would be better for EV expansion if there was a uniform charging protocol.Why is there no Ford badge on the car?If by any you mean new ones.  My 2000 GT has one on the rear.Looks like a “car” in the real life pictures. More like the old 5-Series GT than something like an Escape or Blazer.
It would be interesting to have a journo take a tape measure and measure the interior hip point between this and something like the Charger or the prior-gen SHO.
I do wish Ford went with a more traditional-looking “Mustang” interior for this instead of copying the Model 3 “minimalism but huge screen” design. The names given for the drive modes are also a little too whimsical. Seems like a serious effort though. Wonder how sales will turn out.I wonder what the range is in the middle of a Quebec winter. I hope it doesn’t drop too much.If you can live with a 25-50% drop in very cold weather, then you’ll be OK. That’s just the nature of today’s lithium ion battery technology.Never mind Quebec, what about Saskatoon? The range has to drop when so much power will be going to cabin heat.Forget it Jake, it’s Saskatchewan.Mileage drops also when it gets hot to!  Above 90 F, lithium battery get hotter and AC on will drop mileage by 10% alone.And you think A/C is free on a car with a gas engine?Since Ford sued to own the “Model E” name, it’s clear that was a purely defensive move, and no product will ever actually bear that name.Electric Mondeo?the Probe has landedIt didn’t help that the child actor who played ‘Seven’ was horrible.Goodbye Tesla…Vegan interior: Hannibal Lecter approves.Do you space it’ll chafe against his skin-suit, presumably also made of vegans?Yes proles, this is your four door “Mustang”.::drops tiny American flag::Made in Mexico.  4-door.  CUV.  I don’t mind the electric part and I understand the “everything CUV” these days.  But this slow V6 Mustang driver says Nyet!Holy Ipad Batman!I like this car.Ah, we have in our midst a Thinkpad enthusiast. I’ll continue to rock my X300/X301s around the house and supplement them with my X220 as the battery life of the X3xx kinda sucks.The iPad stuck to the dash thing seems to not be going away. I am sad.So are we developing a Mustang performance sub-brand? If so, where does that leave other Ford Performance vehicles like the Raptor? I’d have called this Thunderbird 2.0. Or Torino E-Cobra. Not a Mustang.“BUT PORSCHE??”Porsche is a MANUFACTURER. Mustang is a BRAND. Like Cayenne, Panamera, 911, etc. This is the kind of brand dilution one might expect from Mitsubishi – perhaps the ultimate “cash-on-the-hood” brand today. It’s beneath FoMoCo to call it a Mustang.@Budda-Boom: an alternative view – Volkswagen is a manufacturer and Porsche is a brand. Beware, Bob Lutz is pushing the same thing for the Corvette:youtu.be/2logDxJdAvU?t=1300Attaching to the Mustang name is debatable, but at least it’s not another “F” named model. Prior management would have called it “Ford Faraday.”Since it’s a crossover, it would have been an E name.Ford Edison?This is a vehicle nobody asked for. If they sell 10,000 I would be amazed. It will flop,Probably.They can call it whatever they want, but it’s not a Mustang.So all of the sudden the Honda Crosstour was such a good idea we’re bringing it back? FFS it’s even got the same problem with the rear tailights protruding on what should be part of the tailgate. They just really hate golf bags.Do you mean intruding?  What do you mean exactly?  Just trying to figure it out.Sorry, notice the where the tail lights are and the large bit of sheet metal between the cargo hatch and the outside of the car. The Crosstour featured this, and unlike say the Accord Wagon of old who featured thinner tailights and a flatter cargo hatch, because of the angles its more difficult to get a golf bag inside. What ends up happening in Crosstour is you end up laying them vertically, this appears to be what would happen here but I may be wrong. I had issues with my Corolla’s hatch but if I take out the driver I can fit the rest of the bag horizontally. http://www.antennamastsrus.com/Honda/1996%20ACCORD%20WAGON%20LX%20V-TECH%201.jpgIt’s not bad looking, but the range is going to have to improve if they want to compete with Tesla.So Ford calls their Model Y and Mach-E… got it.I’ve also learned that if I want a Mustang I just need to put a horse logo on the grille.Given the SUV craze if you going to make a electric vehicle this is the right size / shape. We’ll see if public is truly ready for an electric based future on how this sells.On the outside it is a decent enough looking vehicle, but I guess I am a grumpy old guy as I couldn’t live day to day with the dash and center stack.  I thought the tacked on iPad on top of the dash was bad, this has one of those and one stuck in front of the dash in the center.I hope that is an optical illusion that the screen blocks the vents in that picture above.You must be logged in to post a comment.