by Surur@mspoweruserTesla is announcing their new truck on the 21st, and today started sending out invitations to the media to the event.The invite actually gives us another glimpse of the vehicle, if you squint enough.The wheels can be seen in the crop above, showing the relatively high ground clearance and light strip headlines. The truck will clearly have a tall front profile.Equally interesting is that Telsa has confirmed that the truck will be called “CYBRTRK”, following a trademark filed by Tesla on the 6th November being discovered. CYBRTRK.com redirects to Tesla.com at present.The font used by the trademark confirms the car’s Bladerunner credentials.Musk has said the truck will look like an “armoured personnel carrier from the future”.He has also said it will feature a 400-500 mile range, dual-motor all-wheel-drive drive train and dynamic suspension, and “300,000 lbs of towing capacity,” and will cost less than $50,000 and “be better than a Ford F150.”Musk promised their truck would be “a better sports car than a standard Porsche 911”, as well as a “better truck than a Ford F-150 in terms of truck-like functionality.”The Tesla CYBRTRK will be unveiled in Los Angeles near the SpaceX rocket factory.Via Electrekby Surur on November 17, 2019by Sururby Sururby Rahulby PradeepApple recently launched the new Apple AirPods Pro for $250, but surprisingly it is already possible to grab a pair at a considerable discount. The AirPods Pro features Active Noise Cancellat...In September Amazon announced a slew of devices that expands all nooks and crannies of the Amazon Echo ecosystem, with one of the most popular likely being the Amazon Echo Show 8, for which ...Amazon is not waiting until Black Friday to offer deep iPad Pro discounts at their web store. Today you can get the latest 12.9-inch iPad Pro with 256GB storage for just $949.99, $199.01 off...Dell has released its list of Black Friday deals to help get the holiday shopping season kickstarted. Starting with the easy to throw into a carry-on Dell XPS 13 2-in-1, announced only in Ma...Microsoft is now offering a deal on its Surface Go that’s specially tailored to families with tech-savvy kids. Starting from $440, you can build a “Surface Go Kids Bundle”,...The most interesting mainstream laptop of the last 12 months is still the HP Spectre Folio. Dressed in leather, the high-end laptop can be a tablet, laptop or turn into a presentation tent m...Apple’s Powerbeats Pro with adjustable, secure-fit ear hooks, are on sale for $199.95- down from $249.95, making it a saving of 20%, or $50. The headphones offer up to 12 hours of list...In September, Lenovo announced seven new Yoga 2-in-1 Windows PCs and today the C940 range have become available for purchase. Lenovo made the following updates to Alexa on Yoga PCs: Lock Scr...A bit like the Surface Studio, Microsoft’s Surface Headphones have been universally lauded for its design, which combines both extreme comfort and ease of use. The headphones, which ar...In the run-up to Microsoft’s Surface event next month, Microsoft is running a big sale on the whole Surface range, from the Surface Go to the Surface Book. The Surface Go range is seei...