Automakers may  be shifting their electric car marketing strategy from environmentalism to  performance, car buyers are getting older, and Daimler’s got to cut  about a billion in costs. All this and more from The Morning Shift of Thursday, November 14, 2019.Saving  the planet is apparently not a good enough reason to buy an electric vehicle—at least  at their current prices and availability—so automakers are, to use a  horrifically overused word, pivoting to selling them on performance instead, targeting enthusiasts and the like by advertising that EVs can go very fast.That, at least, is CNBC’s take:Automakers from Ford to Tesla are building a new generation of  electric vehicles that is faster and more powerful than almost anything  else on the road. After spending billions on eco-friendly, all-electric  cars that resulted in lackluster sales, automakers are shifting their  target market from earthy environmentalists to gearheads and thrill  seekers looking for speed.For  a decade, EVs have primarily been produced to meet government fuel  economy standards with more eco-friendly alternatives to fossil fuels.  But as automakers attempt to bring EVs into the mainstream and compete  against industry-leader Tesla, they’re touting the performance of EVs more than their environmental benefits.No  one’s talking about the fact that the new, all-electric Porsche Taycan  delivers the equivalent of 90 miles per gallon in the city. Car  reviewers, instead, are raving about the 750 horsepower the Turbo S  model can make.This isn’t exactly new, nor are the two mutually exclusive. Tesla has long been touting its 0 to 60 times and superior performance as well as the environmental benefits. Hell, the whole reason Tesla exists is the founding principle that EVs can also be high performance cars.But  the thesis of the article, that Tesla and Porsche and Chevy tried to  sell EVs with the pitch of “this doesn’t kill the planet” and that  failed so now they’re switching to “the car, it is fast” is an oversimplification at best.Most egregiously, the article does not once mention or even allude to the fact that EVs are expensive. The dollar sign does not appear in the CNBC article, which is  weird for any CNBC article, much less one about EVs underperforming, sales-wise. Neither does the word “cost” or “price.” New EVs with decent range are near impossible to buy for less than $30,000 and the average price of new EVs sold in the U.S. is $55,600. You’d think this might perhaps be a relevant data point for why EV sales are not as strong as people thought.The  cool thing about EVs, though, is even high performance EVs like the  Taycan or Model S are still orders of magnitude better for the planet  than their gasoline counterparts. So if car companies think they can get  more people into EVs by talking about 0-60 speeds instead of emissions,  fine by me. But that won’t be a magic bullet to meeting sales expectations. EVs  must get cheaper.Today’s edition of young people aren’t buying new cars anymore comes from Green Car Congress,  which analyzed the age of new car and light truck buyers in 2007 and  2017, respectively. They found more than half of all new car buyers in  2017 were 54 or older:In 2007, a majority of buyers (53%) were age 35 to 54, while in 2017 a majority (52%) were age 55 and older.The  biggest change came in the 35-44 age bracket, which in 2007 accounted  for 29 percent of all new car buyers, but in 2017 was only 14 percent, a  15 percent shift. The other huge change was in the 65 and older  bracket, which accounted for only 13 percent of new car sales in 2007  but, a decade later, was 27 percent. The upshot  here, which is a trend we have noted before, is new car sales are  shifting to older age groups. This has always been true to some  extent—young people tend to have less money than older people—but the trend is becoming more pronounced  for a variety of reasons, including young people getting saddled with  more debt earlier in life as their wages stagnate and new cars are more  expensive than they used to be. Again, the cars, they gotta be cheaper  if you want more people to buy them.OK,  Musk has never conducted a robotaxi parade. You know he would if he  could, though. But he can’t, because Teslas are not capable of driving  themselves, which is Daimler Chief Executive Ola Kaellenius’s point when  he said robotaxis are in for a “reality check.”From Reuters:The task of developing cars which are capable of navigating traffic  in urban areas without any driver input, has proven to be more  challenging than Daimler’s engineers had expected, Kaellenius said. “There  has been a reality check setting in here,” Kaellenius told investors at  the company’s investor day in London. The technology will more likely  be applied in trucks, helping freight companies on long haul highway  routes, he said. Waymo has true, honest-to-God robotaxis  operating in a geofenced area in Tempe, Arizona, but that’s pretty much  it. And Tempe is one of the easier places to run robotaxis because of  the simple street grid, lack of pedestrians, highly structured and  well-marked intersections, and dry climate. The  fact that Waymo has pulled this off, with its half-decade head start on  nearly everyone else in the industry, in a very limited setting, is  neither to knock Waymo’s accomplishment nor disprove Kaellenius’s  statement. Things will simply move very slowly, much slower than folks  expected five years ago or so. And that’s a great thing, because we know what happens when it doesn’t. OK, that also didn’t happen. But you’d be forgiven for thinking it did based on the Detroit News article headlined “Germany Hails Tesla Plans To Build Its First Europe Factory:”Germany on Wednesday hailed Tesla’s decision to build its first European  factory in the country, days after the government said it would boost  subsidies for buyers of electric cars.After  I actually read the article, it’s clear they meant “A Few German  Government Officials,” including the economy minister and a spokesperson  for the German government.Is the entire country of Germany so psyched about having a gigafactory next to the (boondoggle of an)  airport that it’s willing to give Tesla some compensation for its  decision to set up shop there? According to the entire nation of  Germ...I Mean, the economy minister, “So far, subsidies haven’t been  discussed.” That “so far” is doing an awful lot of work there.Daimler  was slow to catch on to EVs, and now its catching up to them. The  company plans to tighten its belt, particularly around the Mercedes-Benz  waistline. From Reuters:Tougher emissions rules will hit Daimler’s profits in 2020 and 2021,  prompting the German carmaker to seek more than 1 billion euros ($1.1  billion) in savings from cutting staff costs at its Mercedes-Benz  business by the end of 2022, it said on Thursday. ...Management positions will be cut by around 10%, and company said it  would also seek more than 300 million euros from cutting personnel costs  - plus another 250 million euros in fixed costs - at its trucks  business.  Daimler said it needed to sell more electric vehicles  to meet tougher European Union rules which force carmakers to cut carbon  dioxide emissions from cars by 37.5% by 2030 compared with 2021 levels,  and following a 40% cut between 2007 and 2021. The  story of the last 20 years or so is nearly every automaker got hooked  on the unsustainable SUV and crossover boom (both from an environmental  and pricing perspective) and the withdrawal period for everyone involved is going to be painful. Quick: name one astronaut on Apollo 12.Apollo 12, the second manned mission to the surface of the moon, is launched from Cape Canaveral,…Senior Reporter, Investigations & Technology, Jalopnik