Digitally native brands like ThirdLove have opened 1,700 brick-and-mortar locations, according to ... [+] Fifth Wall and Thinknum.When Heidi Zak started online bra company ThirdLove in 2012, the whole point was to eliminate the need to go bra shopping. She hated going into Victoria’s Secret and trying on a bunch of bras that never fit quite right. So she set out to put it all online and change the way women buy intimate apparel forever. However, times change. Zak opened her first pop-up store in New York earlier this year and acknowledged last month she is hiring someone to lead a nationwide brick-and-mortar expansion, with plans to open three to five stores next year.“I always said we’d never open a store. No woman wants to bra shop,” says Zak, cofounder and co-CEO of ThirdLove. “But we had to listen to our customers.”She is a latecomer to a growing movement among digital brands, which have increasingly turned to brick-and-mortar stores as a way to raise awareness and drive sales, particularly as online competition heats up and it has become more expensive to advertise on platforms like Instagram.Today, there are over 1,700 stores operated by digitally native brands like ThirdLove, Warby Parker, Allbirds and Away, according to a new analysis by Kevin Campos, a principal at venture capital firm Fifth Wall, and Thinknum Alternative Data. More are coming. Digital brands are expected to open another 850 stores by 2023, according to JLL Research, led by companies like Casper, Untuckit and Adore Me. “Stores are not a marketing tool or a sideshow—they are becoming a real part of these businesses,” says Campos.The online retailer that has been most aggressive in expanding its brick-and-mortar presence is SmileDirectClub, which has opened over 300 locations since 2016. Most of them are inside of CVS and Walgreens stores, which has allowed the company to expand rapidly without the capital investment or risk involved in opening its own stores. It has the option to open more than 1,000 additional locations at these retailers.The next most brick-and-mortared digital brands: Tesla (128 stores), Suitsupply (125 stores), Warby Parker (116 stores), Alex and Ani (104 stores), Kendra Scott (95 stores), Peloton (83 stores), Untuckit (83 stores), Bonobos (61 stores) and Indochino (56 stores).“People are tracking store closures so closely, but not store openings,” says Campos, who tallied and mapped out every store that has been opened by a digital brand. He excluded companies that were started before 2000, which means, for instance, that Amazon’s 4-star stores were left out. One thing he found was that online brands like to be near each other and have flocked to the same malls and downtown streets. “More often than not, young brands are interested in clustering next to each other,” says Campos. Just look at Abbot Kinney Boulevard in downtown Venice Beach, California, where stores like Allbirds, Everlane, Warby Parker, Suitsupply and Marine Layer have cropped up on the same street. Or Tyson’s Corner shopping mall in Virginia, where Peloton, Untuckit, Tesla and Warby Parker have opened stores. Warby Parker, Everlane, Suitsupply, Marine Layer and other online brands have all opened up stores ... [+] on the same street in Venice Beach, California.The brick-and-mortar push has been driven, in part, by a sharp rise in digital advertising rates on platforms like Instagram and Facebook. As the number of direct-to-consumer brands has multiplied, they have flooded social media feeds with their ads, causing rates to rise and intensifying an already fierce battle for eyeballs. “The era of incredibly cheap online customer acquisition is over,” says Campos.Plus, while e-commerce has grown rapidly, 90% of retail sales still take place in stores, according to the latest data from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Online retailers are responding to that opportunity, plus demand from their customers, who often want the option to try on items to make sure they fit or see products in person to get a better sense of quality, color and style.Meanwhile, the crush of store closures continues as retailers like Payless and Forever 21 go bankrupt and shutter hundreds of locations. In 2019, a total of 9,037 store closures have been announced, according to Coresight Research, which dwarfs the 5,844 store closures from last year.I am a staff writer at Forbes covering retail. I’m particularly interested in entrepreneurs who are finding success in a tough and changing landscape. I have been at Fo