President Donald Trump tweeted effusive praise for his former press secretary Sean Spicer's performance on "Dancing With the Stars," then deleted the tweet after Spicer was voted off.Spicer, who joined the dance competition in August, was eliminated on Monday after weeks of low scores. He left his White House post in July 2017, ostensibly on good terms with the president.








        Spicer on "Dancing With the Stars" in an episode that aired Monday.
      

Dancing With The Stars/YouTube


"Vote for Sean Spicer on Dancing with the Stars," the president tweeted at 8:33 p.m., about half an hour into the show."He is a great and very loyal guy who is working very hard," Trump said. "He is in the quarterfinals — all the way with Sean! #MAGA #KAG."MAGA and KAG are acronyms for his campaign slogans "Make America Great Again" and "Keep America Great."He deleted the tweet about an hour later, near the time Spicer was voted off, according to ProPublica's Politwoops tweet-deletion tracker.Around 10 p.m., Trump posted a new tweet that said: "A great try by @seanspicer. We are all proud of you!"Business Insider obtained screenshots of the deleted tweet through various websites that log Trump's deleted tweets.








        In a now deleted tweet, Trump praised Spicer's performance on "Dancing With the Stars."
      
Twitter

Spicer appeared unfazed by Trump's deleted tweet.The former press secretary tweeted in response to Trump's new, less effusive tweet: "Thank you @POTUS @realDonaldTrump I can't begin to express how much your continued support has meant, especially during my time on @DancingABC."Trump has regularly deleted tweets from his personal @realDonaldTrump account, frequently because of spelling mistakes.But under the 1978 Presidential Records Act, Trump's electronic communication is considered public property and historical record. Experts have been divided over whether Trump can legally delete tweets, because though he is the president, the posts were from his personal account.You can watch a video of Spicer's final performance on the show — a fox trot and an Argentine tango to a version of Destiny's Child's "Bills, Bills, Bills" — here.