CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againDisney has nearly 500 movies and 7,500 TV episodes on its $7-a-month streaming service. This is what's there now, and what's coming.Disney has laid out a vast catalog of new and classic movies and shows to stream with the launch of its Netflix competitor, Disney Plus. At launch Tuesday in the US, Disney Plus included nearly 500 movies and 7,500 episodes of TV, spanning Star Wars, Marvel, Pixar, the Simpsons, as well as a gamut of other titles.    With the massive libraries of Disney -- and, now 21st Century Fox -- as candidates for the service, what's included? And what's coming?   Now that Disney's streaming service is live, one of the simplest ways to browse its catalog without signing up is to check sites like JustWatch, which lets you browse, search and filter the catalogs of streaming services.    Generally speaking, you can count on Disney Plus to be the exclusive streaming home for all of Disney's theatrical releases in 2019 and beyond. It also has original shows and films, and a big library of legacy movies and shows to watch from both Disney and Fox. Everything on Disney Plus is rated PG-13 or softer -- anything rated R that Disney has available to stream (like Deadpool) will be on Hulu.    This article provides highlights of the library at launch and details about when to expect high-profile titles coming in the first year. It also summarizes the pipeline of originals coming to Disney Plus, with timing details if they're known. At the end is a long listing of launch titles that Disney announced in an epic Twitter thread in October.   The Marvel movies available at launch are:    From Star Wars, the service launched with all the movies from the first two trilogies plus two films from the recent spate of movies:     During the first year of the service, Disney Plus will add the remaining Star Wars titles, so The Last Jedi, Solo and The Rise of Skywalker will be available to stream before the end of next year (see below for precise dates).     Disney Plus also has all Pixar movies, except for Coco, The Incredibles 2 and Toy Story 4. Those last three Pixar movies will be added to Disney Plus in the first year (see below for precise dates).     In addition, the service has Avatar, the 2009 blockbuster film, and every season of The Simpsons available at launch too.     Marvel will add at least another four movies:    Star Wars will complete the full library by adding:    And Pixar will round out its full catalog of films by adding:      You can also count on every theatrical Disney movie released in 2019 (and beyond) hitting Disney Plus roughly six to 10 months after its debut in theaters.     The Falcon and The Winter Soldier series will be available sometime after Disney Plus launches within its first year. Within its first year, Disney will have more than 25 original episodic series and more than 10 original movies, documentaries and specials.   Closely tied to events in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Anthony Mackie's Sam Wilson character (and his Falcon alter-ego) return as the new Captain America, after elderly Steve Rogers handed off his shield in Endgame. Sebastian Stan's Bucky joins him to fight evil as a duo, and Daniel Bruhl will reprise his role of villain Zemo from Captain America: Civil War in the series.    Hollywood trade publications have leaked other details of the show. It is being written by Malcolm Spellman of Empire, according to Variety, and John Wick writer Derek Kolstad, according to The Wrap. Meanwhile, Kari Skoglan -- known for work on The Handmaid's Tale -- will direct all six of the series' episodes, according to Deadline. Timing: Fall 2020 This documentary series explores the intersection between Marvel's stories, characters and creators and the real world. Each documentary will dive into the historical and cultural context to the stories of the Marvel Universe. Timing: Year One A prequel of sorts to Bo Peep's return in Toy Story 4, this animated short film answers questions about where Bo was since we last we saw her in Toy Story 2. Timing: Year One Inspired by the characters of Monsters, Inc., the animated series picks up six months after the events of the original film. Tylor Tuskmon, an eager young mechanic who works on the Monsters, Inc. facilities team, dreams of working his way up to the Laugh Floor. Returning cast members Billy Crystal, John Goodman, John Ratzenberger, Bob Peterson and Jennifer Tilly will join new cast members Ben Feldman, Kelly Marie Tran, Henry Winkler, Lucas Neff, Alanna Ubach and Stephen Stanton. Timing: Year One The animated series returns with 12 new episodes exclusively on Disney Plus, bringing back characters Anakin Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Padmé Amidala, plus Ahsoka Tano and Captain Rex. Timing: Year One Walt Disney Animation Studios is opening its doors to cameras as it never has before, detailing how the voice cast, directors and team of artists created Frozen 2. The multi-episode documentary series will depict the making of one of the most highly anticipated Disney Animation films. Timing: Year One This reality competition hosted by Angela Kinsey invites families from diverse backgrounds to join a Disney-inspired cooking content at Walt Disney World. In each episode, two families will participate in a themed challenge mixing Disney into their family traditions. The finalists will apply what they've learned to create a dish that represents their family in a Disney way. Timing: Year One Cinema Relics is an anthology series re-examining beloved films through the props and costumes that made them unique -- drawing from the perspectives of the craftspeople who created them, the actors who interacted with them, and the collectors/archives that own them today. Among the films featured in the first eight episodes are Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, Mary Poppins, The Muppet Movie, Tron and Who Framed Roger Rabbit? Timing: Year One Told from the narration of her diary, the series follows a Cuban-American 12-year-old girl as she navigates middle school en route to becoming the future US president. Gina Rodriguez (Jane the Virgin) and Emily Gipson (I Can and I Will) executive produce along with Ilana Peña (Crazy Ex-Girlfriend). Timing: Year One This reality series will follow the teams of more than 1,000 animal-care experts, vets and biologists at Disney's Animal Kingdom theme park and Epcot's SeaBase aquarium. Timing: Year One Another reality series, each episode of (Re)Connect will show a family disconnecting in order to address a relatable issue and confront the family's dilemma. Timing: Year One Journalist Bob Woodruff travels the world with his 27-year-old son, Mack, focusing on places your average tourist is least likely to venture. Timing: Year One This competition series highlights teams of inventive students who design, build and test new contraptions, before a panel of experts rate their work. Timing: Year One A new season of Star Wars: The Clone Wars is coming to Disney Plus in its first year.A documentary about the Aladdin and Beauty and the Beast lyricist Howard Ashman. Timing: 2020 Stepbrothers Phineas and Ferb; their older siste, Candace; Perry the Platypus; and the Danville gang come back together in an animated adventure. Phineas and Ferb set across the galaxy to rescue Candace, who has been abducted by aliens and spirited away to a far-off planet free of little brothers. Timing: Year One Based on New York Times best-selling young adult novel, this coming-of-age story follows Leo Borlock, an average 16-year-ol, who is content to fly under the radar until a new student named Stargirl shows up at his high school. Timing: Year One Based on the book Timmy Failure: Mistakes Were Made, this film tells the story of Timmy, a quirky, deadpan hero who operates detective agency Total Failure Inc. with his 1,500-pound polar bear partner, Total. Timing: Year One Based on a true story, a 1925 Alaskan village relies on one man -- Leonhard Seppala, played by Willem Dafoe -- and his lead sled dog, Togo, to retrieve a diphtheria antitoxin from hundreds of miles away across treacherous terrain on the eve of a massive storm. Timing: Year One Elizabeth Olsen will return as Wanda Maximoff and Paul Bettany will reprise his role as Vision in the new Marvel Studios series. Marvel has called WandaVision a "mega event series" for Disney Plus. WandaVision will take place after the events of Avengers: Endgame. With Bettany returning, the series will presumably address how Vision is revived after his death in Infinity War. It will also include Teyonah Parris playing adult Monica Rambeau, first seen as a child in Captain Marvel.     The events of WandaVision will also lead directly to Scarlet Witch's appearance in the May 2021 theatrical film, Doctor Strange: In the Multiverse of Madness.     WandaVision will be "unlike anything we've done before," Olsen said at the Comic-Con announcement of the show. "It's gonna get weird." Timing: Spring 2021 Tom Hiddleston will reprise his role as Loki, saying the show will feature the version of Loki seen in 2012's first Avengers film. Loki appeared to be killed by Thanos at the beginning of Avengers: Infinity War, but Endgame's "time heist" plot showed Loki in 2012 snatching the tesseract/space stone and teleporting away. The Loki series will explain what happened to Hiddleston's character right after that, Marvel Studios president Kevin Feige has said. Hiddleston also said the series version of Loki reflects the mischievous version seen in The Avengers, not the reformed Loki seen in Thor: Ragnarok. Timing: Spring 2021 Marvel Studios' first animated series takes inspiration from the comic books of the same name. Each episode will explore a pivotal moment from the Marvel Cinematic Universe and turn it on its head, leading the audience into alternate realities.    Many actors from the MCU will serve as voice talent, and the casting is already hinting at what storylines What If...? will explore. Michael B. Jordan and Chadwick Boseman coming back ensure a Black Panther alternate reality with Jordan's villain Kilmonger. In the Thor corner, the Ragnarok team of Chris Hemsworth, Tom Hiddleston, Taika Waititi and Jeff Goldblum are all getting back together -- plus Natalie Portman. Another episode will address a Peggy Carter alternate world with Hayley Atwell returning as Peggy and Dominic Cooper reprising young Howard Stark. Paul Rudd and Michael Douglas will voice their Ant-Man roles, and Jeremy Renner's Hawkeye and Samuel L. Jackson's Nick Fury will be showing up too.    A narrator voiced by Jeffrey Wright will serve as a throughline across episodes. Wright's narrator is The Watcher, part of a celestial race that watches over events taking place in the MCU. The Watchers were briefly seen in Guardians of the Galaxy, Vol. 2 during Stan Lee's cameo. Timing: Summer 2021 Picking up after the events of Avengers: Endgame, the Hawkeye series will see Jeremy Renner reprise his role as the archer, and feature Kate Bishop, who in the comics becomes the next Hawkeye. Exploring the character's time as Ronin, Renner said in a Comic-Con appearance, "I get to teach someone else how to be a superhero without superpowers." Timing: Fall 2021 Diego Luna will reprise his role of rebel spy Cassian Andor in this series set during the formative years of the Rebellion prior to the events of Rogue One: A Star Wars Story. The spy thriller will explore tales filled with espionage and daring missions to restore hope to a galaxy in the grip of a ruthless Empire. Alan Tudyk will also reprise his role as K-2SO with Stephen Schiff (The Americans) as showrunner and executive producer. Timing: Year Two Earthkeepers is a cinematic documentary series profiling people changing the way we see the animal kingdom: conservationists and the animals they've devoted their careers to studying, some of the planet's most endangered species. Timing: Year Two The documentary series, based on the book of the same name, tells the story of how an unsung workforce of women helped create some of the most beloved animated films of Disney. Timing: Year Two The release timing of some Disney Plus originals is hazy.    In some cases, the company has announced plans for originals without any indication of when they'll come out:    This story was originally published April 12 and is updated as new information is revealed. Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.