TL;DR: Get the coding training you've been looking for with The Ultimate 2020 Web Designer and Developer Bundle for $29, a 97% savings. The year 2019 has taught us a lot. We learned that an egg can be more Insta-famous that Kylie Jenner. We finally found out who would sit on the Iron Throne. We even saw a Black Hole for the first time.  But the last year has also taught us that coding is still as lucrative of a career as ever, especially as we enter the next decade. So, like the cliché saying goes, there's no time like the present to invest in your career and learn the industry's most popular programming languages. The Ultimate 2020 Web Designer and Developer Bundle (which is now on sale for $29) was designed to help jumpstart your coding career, even if you're a complete novice. The bundle is broken down into six key courses that cover web development, front end development, Wordpress, and Python. After you've completed the 99 hours of training, you'll know what it takes to create a responsive website from the ground up. To give you a little taste of what's included, we're breaking down each course below: The Ultimate Web Designer and Developer Course: Build 23 ProjectsDesigned to be your crash course in web design and development, this course focuses on creating and coding landing pages, exposing you to essential design tools in Photoshop and building a client address book with MySQL. You'll even gain real-world guidance and tips that will help you start a new career as a coder.How to Become a ProgrammerSo you get that coding is a lucrative career, but you're not quite sure why programming languages exist in the first place. For people who have zero knowledge about the field's history, its worth brushing up with this 65-part course, which breaks down common programming concepts into small, bite-sized lessons anyone can understand. Bootstrap to Wordpress Put your practical knowledge of HTML, CSS, and PHP to work with the Bootstrap framework, which can convert static websites into functional Wordpress sites and themes. In layman's terms, this means you'll be able to code your way to a custom website with as little as 12 hours of training. The Front End Developer BootcampThe fundamentals of front end web development are easier to master than you think. With the help of the Front End Developer Bootcamp (made up of 133 digestible lectures), you'll soon be building real-world projects with HTML, CSS, and Javascript. Your portfolio is about to get a serious upgrade. Learn Python 3 from Beginner to AdvancedPython is widely considered one of the best entryways into programming, thanks to its versatility as a coding language and its syntax, which is relatively easy to pick up. Plus, if you're eyeing a major tech company as your next career move, Netflix, Dropbox, Reddit, Google, and Facebook all use the languages. Understand how to build Python code, as well as get a sense of how to write programs with real-life applications, through this eight-hour course. Become a Web Developer: Learn the Basics and Fundamentals of RubyAnother good stepping stone for beginners is Ruby (the programming language of AirBnB, Twitter, and Etsy), which is one of the easier programming languages to pick up. This course breaks down step-by-step how to master Ruby fundamentals by exposing you to hands-on web projects. If you're ready to get started, take advantage of this sale and enroll in the training for just $29.







The Ultimate 2020 Web Designer and Developer Bundle — $29
See Details

Heads up: All products featured here are selected by Mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. If you buy something, Mashable may earn an affiliate commission. 
