That’s a tough one. Final Score: 3-1 Red WingsAfter going 1-3-0 in the 11 days since these two teams last met, dare I say that tonight’s rematch was a must-win for the Edmonton Oilers? Would that be too bold? Am I tripping out? I don’t think so. While the team’s hot start has been enough to cover up this recent run of mediocrity, the Oilers needed to get themselves back in the win column and make it look good while they’re at it. They needed a statement game against a team that’s currently sitting in second last place in the entire NHL, and, no, I don’t think that’s too much to ask. Coming into tonight’s matchup, the Red Wings had lost eight straight, which is exactly the kind of trap that our boys keep falling into far too often for my liking. I convinced myself that this wouldn’t happen again, and that the Oilers would actually care enough to do whatever it took to turn Detroit’s eight-game slide into nine and avoiding their ‘slump buster’ label.So when the game got going and the Oilers did what we were all worried about, and came out flat and spotting the Red Wings more than their share of early zone time and chances. I don’t know why they’re having such a tough time getting going right now, but this was another ugly start for Edmonton on all fronts. To make matters worse, Mikko Koskinen wasn’t able to totally erase all of the mistakes happening around him and the Oilers found themselves down by a pair of goals before the game was even 10 minutes old. That’s not a shot at the goalie, but more a point about the firesale the Oilers had going on. And while they did get better as the game progressed through the second period and into the third, there were still far too many shifts where the Red Wings were able to set up, cause havoc, or basically do whatever they wanted in the Oilers’ zone.In the end, this game ended as it probably should have despite the late-game push and goal from Draisaitl, as the Oilers were noticeably the second best team on the ice more often than they were not.The wrap.@jsbmbaggedmilk @RPW_1832 @Spank_YEG I finally found one near me around lunchtime! Oh baby #BeefnCheds pic.twitter.com/arTgDVJNiK— Surveyor Brett (@BLuchanski) October 29, 2019In honor of the Oilers Vs. Red Wings game tonight, here’s that time when Nuge made Nick Lidstrom look like a pylon. pic.twitter.com/Y6IoUpAphi— Onion on My Belt (@arrrdeecee) October 29, 2019We’ve got’em right where we want’em— McOil Fan Chaddo (@oilfanchaddo) October 29, 2019Maybe have MacT watch a couple games from the bench first.— WheatNOil (@WheatNOil) October 30, 2019Talk to me, Twitter. Tweet at @OilersnationHQ and @jsbmbaggedmilk for your chance to land in the Best of the Tweets.Source: NHL, Official Game Page, 10/29/2019 – 8:15 pm MTBy baggedmilkFinal  3 - 4 (SO)VSPollThe Nation NetworkCopyright © 2019 The Nation Network Inc.Not a member? Join the NationPlease enter your email address to reset your password.