 








        REI
      

Outdoorsy folk can be a fussy bunch, and rightfully so. After all, this is stuff they, and often their very lives, truly depend upon. Still, this makes shopping for them an endeavor. Would they dangle from a cliff with this carabiner? Are the straps on that rucksack up for the Appalachian Trail? Will these boots blow out in a year or two, halfway up or down a mountain? These are serious considerations one doesn't necessarily go through when purchasing gifts at, say, Macy's.We've taken care to conduct a whole lot of testing and research to pull together what we've found to be the best REI has to offer throughout its wide array of categories.So whether it's for your girlfriend, your father, your aunt, or your grandmother who just happens to be an itinerant adventure junkie, there's something for all below. And if nothing strikes your fancy, a $20 lifetime REI Co-op membership and a gift card will never do them wrong.For most items on REI, order by December 20, 9 a.m. PT to get it before December 25.Through REI Adventures, you can send them just about anywhere in the world they (or you) please.Aeropress has such a cult following indoors and out, there's a good chance this will even replace their French press or coffee machine at home, too.Appeal to their (and your) inner hippie with this sealable, reusable silicone storage bag.Heaven forbid they need it, but knowing them, you know they will.There's nothing quite like the two-burner tabletop camp stove, and if they don't have one by now, it's high time. These things last forever.Speaking of lasting forever, help them keep their noggin (or what's left of it) intact.Winter can get stuffy; bring the outdoors in with a cactus-flower- and fern-scented candle.The be-all, end-all of camping hammocks.Arbor makes some of the prettiest snowboards around, and whether you know it or not, they've probably longingly admired one of these on the slopes or through a storefront window.Rossignol, K2, Salomon, Atomics, and Volkl, REI has them all, and there's no better time to buy last year's still-perfectly-good models than now.If you, or they, haven't tried one of these, especially on winter camping trips, you (and/or they) are in for a far warmer night's sleep.Leatherman's best known for its clunkier, more equipped "Free" and "Wave" models, which they probably already own. Get them something just as trusty but much more packable for longer treks where every ounce counts.Pick up a pair for yourself while you're at it: These are great on and off the slopes.Get $10 off 88 ski passes at 44 resorts (that's a weekend at each). They'll probably never fill it, but it's a challenge they can only accept.This is the year they finally start wearing a helmet on the mountain.That cheap, ultra-light aluminum cookware set gets hot plenty fast, but it also burns the daylights out of everything all too easily. Get them something they can actually cook on out there.No more drowned phones, wallets, or keys.Why it took Yeti until this year to make a wheeled cooler is beyond us, but behold!An exceptionally cozy fishing or expedition canoe for two. Oh, the places you (and they) will go...There's a lot of peace of mind in knowing that your thousands of dollars in snow gear is safely locked on your roof, and almost as much in knowing that there's a little more room inside the car on ski trips this year.Subway- and airplane-compliant, an inflatable SUP will also pack into the trunk of a sedan.It's time they ditch those scratched up old things.All they need for a weeklong trek, nothing they don't.Almost indestructible, this is an essential tool for car-campers and van-lifers everywhere.Warm, fuzzy, and festive to boot.There's something about the hand feel of these we just can't get over, and there are few better gifts out there for couples.A little sugary trailside pick-me-up in a tin they'll never toss.A good ski jacket is imperative on the slopes, and Arc'teryx's are among the best.The best, and lightest-weight, headlamp on the planet. Even if they already have one (or six), this will quickly become their favorite.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.