

						Alberta Justice Minister Doug Schweitzer 						

Postmedia Archives 
Budget concerns heard within the walls of city council chambers spilled onto social media Tuesday as Calgary’s mayor and the provincial justice minister sparred over police funding.A day after councillors questioned a $13-million police budget shortfall, Justice Minister Doug Schweitzer jabbed at Mayor Naheed Nenshi, calling him “Trudeau’s mayor” in a Twitter post.“Trudeau’s mayor is out to lunch,” tweeted Schweitzer. “We made tough decisions in our Budget but didn’t reduce police grants by one dollar. Unlike his friend in Ottawa, he should get his fiscal house in order.”Trudeau’s mayor is out to lunch. We made tough decisions in our Budget but didn’t reduce police grants by one dollar. Unlike his friend in Ottawa, he should get his fiscal house in order. #AbLeg #abpoli https://t.co/3KabEpn8cnNenshi, in response, posted his hope that Schweitzer would avoid personal insults and explain the UCP budget unveiled last week.“You have increased your ‘admin fee’ on fines, with (sic) is about a $10 million cut to the police and increased fees for testing, another $2 mm blow, plus a $1 mm cut to cannabis funding as per the Chief,” he tweeted.Perhaps rather than personal insults, you may wish to explain your budget. You have increased your “admin fee” on fines, with is about a $10 million cut to the police and increased fees for testing, another $2 mm blow,  plus a $1 mm cut to cannabis funding as per the Chief. https://t.co/jRHyih8fgdAn analysis presented to city council Monday said the UCP will hike the province’s share of fine revenue to 40 per cent from 26.7 per cent, amounting to $10 million annually that will no longer be returned to the Calgary Police Service.There will also be new charges for DNA testing and lab analysis that could cost police $2 million annually, while a $1-million program that previously helped fund cannabis training was cancelled.Police Chief Mark Neufeld said the funds equate to roughly 130 positions in the service.Nenshi said Monday that he was surprised the Kenney government chose to target the police service for operational cuts.“I’m not going to be lectured by Mayor Nenshi on the funding priorities of this government,” Schweitzer told reporters in Edmonton.“He needs to get his fiscal house in order and stop funding pet projects. We made justice a priority of our department. We’re going to continue funding policing. We’ve done so.”Schweitzer then read off headlines printed on a sheet of paper that included “Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi, former Premier Alison Redford willing to help Trudeau” and “Trudeau gets offer to help Calgary from Mayor Naheed Nenshi,” among others.“I’m sorry, Mayor Naheed Nenshi — Albertans spoke loud and clear,” continued Schweitzer. “Seventy per cent of Albertans voted for the Conservative government. They want a government that’s going to fight for Alberta. That’s what we intend to do.”When asked about Schweitzer’s comments, a spokesman for Nenshi said his tweet stood as his only comment.“We don’t want to get into the mud-slinging the justice minister wants to,” said Adam Noble-Johnson.After a police commission meeting on Tuesday, Neufeld said the impacts of the provincial budget are going to be in the range of $13 million, which will have a “very significant impact.”“The reality of it is we’re going to have to look at how we deliver services differently,” he told reporters.Neufeld said “everything is on the table” in terms of potential cuts, except public safety.“In terms of public safety, I mean, that’s our No. 1 job,” he said. “So what we’re actually talking about is if we have to reorganize and restructure in that way, we will be maintaining public safety. At the end of the day, we’ll be diverting resources from things like prevention and proactive activities and engagement and that sort of thing. That will be where the impacts are.”Calgary Police Association president Les Kaminski said the service is already running thin.“Ultimately, we’re running about as lean as you can run right now — every efficiency has been found,” said Kaminski. “What happens is it all falls back to the members.“And ultimately who suffers is going to be the citizens because you can’t keep providing the same level of service if you don’t have the resources to do it. If (the money) is not coming … we have to alter the services that we provide.”Kaminski said the budget shortfall could see the service stop new hires.“We’re short people already, we can’t keep up to attrition,” he added. “Eventually, we’re going to end up with less and less front-line people … (and) less and less people in all positions eventually.”With files from Janet French and Yolande Colezlaing@postmedia.comOn Twitter: @zjlaingPostmedia is pleased to bring you a new commenting experience. We are committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information.365 Bloor St East, Toronto, ON, M4W3L4, www.postmedia.com
					© 2019 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.					Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.Powered by WordPress.com VIP