








        Vinebox/Facebook
      

  A company is nothing without its employees. Whether you manage a lean team of five out of a coworking space or oversee thousands across offices nationwide, you know that your employees are invaluable to the success of your business — and perhaps you want to thank them beyond simply paying a salary. Skip the tired and cheap corporate gifts and surprise your employees this year with these elevated, thoughtful, and useful options instead. Some come from our favorite startups, while others are just a click away on Amazon. Go the extra mile by customizing them with company colors, a logo, or a personal touch that truly shows your appreciation. Need some gift ideas? Check out all of Insider Picks 2019 holiday gift guides.Give your employees a sweet treat they'll remember with a Sugarfina Candy Cube. Packaged thoughtfully in clear acrylic boxes, these candies were made for gifting. These waterproof nylon totes hold 50 pounds of stuff, fold down to a fraction of their size to fit in your back pocket, and can be customized to let your employees flaunt where they work. As eco-friendly practices become more than a passing trend, you'll only see more of BAGGU's stylish yet functional bags out on the streets. You can request a custom quote at BAGGU here.Peak indulgence is a box of strawberries dipped in rich milk, white, or dark chocolate, and maybe even sprinkled with nuts or chocolate chips. Shari's Berries are our favorite chocolate covered strawberries and they might just become your employees' favorite too after they try them. You can request a business gift quote at Shari's Berries here.  A dash of greenery on their desk or in their room will make them happy — make it low-maintenance and nearly impossible to kill, and they'll be even happier. Choose from single succulents or mini gardens, then customize the rest of the box to create the perfect plant gift. You can learn more about custom gifting at Lula's Garden here. Instead of gifting them a bottle of wine you're not sure they'll like, let them personalize the selection themselves. Vinebox takes the intimidation and pressure out by delivering wine flights in unique bottles and helping budding wine enthusiasts discover their favorites. You can learn more about corporate gifting at Vinebox here.A well-executed idea doesn't happen overnight. Help your employees hatch the next big idea with this cloth-bound notebook that's organized into three sections: Conceive, Incubate, and Hatch. You can submit a corporate order inquiry form at Uncommon Goods here. Omaha Steaks has a long history of delivering some of the best steaks in the country. It offers many different gift combos that feature a mix of steaks, burgers, other meats, and desserts. You can also order custom certificates so your employees can pick and choose their own menu. If this piques your interest, shop custom certificates and gifts, and request an employee gift quote at Omaha Steaks here.These adorable mini hand sanitizers, which have a twist-lock mechanism and contain more than 500 sprays each, are a desk drawer must-have. They combine non-irritating cleansers with natural essential oils like bergamot and spearmint to deliver a soothing, hydrating experience.Business travel has never looked so cool. With a bag from Away, they'll be organized and stylish as they fly from destination to destination. You don't have to gift a piece of luggage — you can also choose a backpack, garment bag, or simple luggage tag. Submit a corporate gifting form here for orders over 25 units. Regardless of your office dress code, fun socks will always be appreciated. You'll have difficulty narrowing down the final choice from Happy Socks' large selection of colorful, quirky patterns and prints. Custom designs with the company colors or logo are also available for orders of 6,000 pairs or more. Whether you're sipping on a hot or cold drink, YETI's stainless steel, double-wall insulated tumblers never fail to keep your beverage at the optimal temperature. Employees can keep them on their desk or bring them along to the trails on their days off. You can fill out a corporate gift form at YETI here.Christina Tosi's creative, nostalgia-driven cookies and truffles will win over anyone with even a hint of a sweet tooth. Fan favorites include the anything-goes Compost Cookie and celebratory B'Day Truffles. The gourmet treats may be pricier than average desserts, but one bite will have your recipients immediately hooked. Get 10% off corporate gifts and bulk orders over $1,000 here. Send employees home with a beautiful, full-grain leather accessory like a luggage tag, business card case, or keychain. For an extra special touch, add a debossed monogram or logo. Though leather goods sound like a premium gift that could be out of your budget, Leatherology sells its bags and accessories without the markup, so customers don't have to spend so much for a touch of luxury. You can fill out a corporate gift inquiry form at Leatherology here.Simple, sleek, and practical, a wine bottle stopper makes a handy kitchen tool. These affordable ones from Williams-Sonoma are made from silicone and create an airtight seal to keep wine at its best. To inquire about discounts on business gift orders totaling more than $1000, email businessgifts@wsgc.com or call 800-838-2589. Everyone loves going to the movies, which is why a Fandango gift card is a no-brainer. You can get bulk discounts for orders over 100 cards so your employees can enjoy the latest summer action movie, surprise indie hit, or highly anticipated animated sequel whenever they want.  Sunglasses are a common gift or employee freebie, but they're rarely worn because they're plain or cheap. Sunglass Hut offers top brands and stylish options that everyone will actually want to wear. A perk of ordering through Sunglass Hut is that anyone can go to a store to receive a free personalized adjustment if the glasses don't fit well. You can learn about corporate gifting at Sunglass Hut here.Valentine's Day and Mother's Day aren't the only occasions where a bouquet of flowers is appropriate. Welcome new employees and remind current ones they're appreciated with The Bouq Co's farm-fresh flowers, which are always arranged and designed beautifully. Business customers can get up to 25% off regular prices. You can learn more about corporate gifting at The Bouqs Co. here.PopSockets grips are the small, simple, and affordable phone accessories that your employees will wish you had gifted them earlier. These round buttons stick to the back of their phone and expand whenever they need a grip or a stand. They can take photos, text, and hold their phone without worrying about dropping it, or prop it up to stream content and video chat. You can order custom PopSockets grips here.Our team loved these tiny magnet toys a lot more than we expected to. Less obnoxious than fidget spinners, they're immensely satisfying to play with and build with as you work through a problem or concentrate on a task. The set includes 512 rare earth magnetic balls, metal building base, plastic splitter card, 16-page starter guide, and carrying case. A branded sweater isn't only about flexing the Patagonia name (though that's certainly part of it). Patagonia's sweaters really are top quality, whether you opt for microfleece, polyester fleece, or down for your employees. Especially as cold weather lingers after the holidays, they'll be grateful to have this sweater on hand. You can fill out the corporate sales application form at Patagonia here.There are plenty of candles out there, but few quite as giftable as Otherland's. These premium candles are available in many scents to suit the different personalities of your employees, and they look great on any tabletop (office, bedroom, or otherwise). You can email hello@otherland.com to inquire about corporate gifts and place a large order.Part of Bombas' appeal, other than the obvious differences in fit and feel, is that it donates a pair of socks to a homeless shelter every time someone buys a pair. This philanthropy doesn't stop if you take part in its corporate gifting program. It can work with your company's current charity partner, or help you find the perfect donation recipient. You can fill out a corporate gifting form at Bombas here.From luxurious hand creams that are sold every three seconds around the world to nourishing soaps and shower oils, L'Occitane offers many options to pamper your employees. You can combine multiple products to create mini gift baskets or dish out individual stocking stuffers at the annual holiday party. Email corporategifts@us.loccitane.com to learn more about its corporate gift program. Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.