
            Insider Inc. receives a commission from our affiliate partners when you buy through our links, but our reporting and recommendations are always independent and objective. Learn more.Shopping for a pair of men's board shorts is a notoriously cringe-worthy affair. They're often hideously flashy, baggy, long, or all of the above, and many are designed for little more than lounging around the pool deck. But alas, gentlemen, the line between board shorts and swim trunks is blurring.Of all the board shorts we've tested and researched, Patagonia's Stretch Planing Board Shorts are our favorite. They're paper-thin, unbelievably quick-drying, and will accommodate most sunbathers and water sport enthusiasts alike.Not everyone requires a surf-friendly board short, however. We took that into consideration and picked out alternatives for everyone, including those of you who want to migrate from the beach to the bar without having to don a pair of shorts with rash-inducing mesh linings, or change out of — and tote along — sopping wet trunks.We also hand-picked a pair of shorter, more traditional mid-length board shorts as well as a newer, trendier short-length board shorts, which are like traditional trunks, but with a quick-drying material, no elastic waistband, and no uncomfortable mesh lining.Throughout this buying guide, we've kept stretchiness, functionality, style, comfort, and drying speed in mind, as those are the factors we find integral to any good pair of board shorts.Updated 10/29/2019: Updated prices and formatting. Our affordable pick, from Howler Brothers, is no longer available. We're currently testing other shorts for replacement consideration.Although other swim shorts are finally giving traditionally unflattering board shorts a run for their money (thank goodness), we like Patagonia's Stretch Planing board shorts best for most aquatic activities. They're utilitarian board shorts, a subtle hybrid between a trunk and a short, sitting just above the knee with a shorter, slimmer profile than most other board shorts.Whether surfing, kayaking, or taking a casual dip while sunbathing before a night on the town, I've yet to find a more comfortable and ergonomic trunk or short. They're arguably sleek enough to pull off at the bar afterward — they'll certainly dry in time — and the single pocket is spacious enough for most smartphones, with room to spare for a wallet and set of keys.I've had mine for over a year now, and I've worn them everywhere from the beach to the boat, and just about everywhere in between. I'm slightly at odds with veteran surf gear tester Chris Dixon at Wirecutter, who passes on these shorts for the baggier, stretchier Wavefarer Stretch board shorts as a surfing and all-around option. However, professional surfer Keith Malloy swears by — and even sleeps — in them. Being so lightweight, they pack well and win points for the traveler, too, folding tidily into their own pocket. In short: I'd live in them if I could.Pros: Lightweight, quick-drying, low-profile, and travel-friendlyCons: Only one pocket, and probably not the most durable or tear-resistant pair of swim shorts, but I haven't had any trouble yet!While slightly baggier and less styled than Patagonia's Stretch Planing board shorts, the Wavefarer Stretch sit at or just below the knee. This may not make them the most fashionable shorts on our list — or the most comfortable for a seaside stroll —but they do offer optimal protection from sun and chafing for long days in the sun and salt. Outside and Wirecutter both swear by them for surfing, and I've had multiple pairs for over two years, wearing them everywhere from the surf and sailboat to the street — well, certain streets.These shorts are longer than I'd generally like an all-around board short to be, but they're designed that way with good purpose, and come along with 50+ UPF sun protection. It's almost impossible to keep even the most zinc-laden sunscreen from rubbing off on the rail of your surfboard, and in the tropical sun, that can spell disaster, and shy of a box jellyfish sting or a shark bite, there are few things that will terminate a surf trip quicker.The bottom line is, if you're going to spend hours a day surfing in the summer sun (and especially the tropics), it's worth forgoing a modicum of fashion for function, and Patagonia's 21-inch Stretch Wavefarers are hardly a compromise where most are concerned.Pros: Four-way stretch, drawstring lies flat for comfortable paddling, quick-dryingCons: More functional than stylish, According to one REI user review, these shorts might lose their luster after a few dips in a swimming pool, though that hasn't been the case for me.Patagonia's Stretch Wavefarer Walk Shorts are essentially a spruced-up version of the Stretch Wavefarer board shorts, but with belt loops and pockets that make them passable, at least at a distance, for khakis. They're also an inch shorter, which leaves them safely above the knee, giving off a sleeker silhouette in contrast to most board shorts and hybrid shorts alike.That said, Patagonia still manages to sneak in an interior bar-tacked drawstring, which is essential for the surf, where a simple button will not necessarily prevent indecent exposure. They also offer the same four-way stretch technology that the other Wavefarers have, and the pockets are mesh (though it would require a scrupulous eye to note this minor detail on terra firma).I also like that these shorts are even lighter (1.1 oz) than the Wavefarer board shorts, though they still come along with the water-repellent and 50+ UPF sun protection finish. The only compromise for the surf enthusiast is the button, which some may find uncomfortable, and the open pockets which, although mesh and quick to drain, create some drag in the water.Pros: Belt loops for dressing up after the beach, if need be, a hidden drawstring, four full pockets, quick-drying, lightweightCons: Button might be uncomfortable for some, drag from open pocketsBirdwell Beach Britches has been around since 1961, and have remained a staple among surfers with a more pared-down style throughout the cataclysmic wave of the tube-legged, neon board shorts that have dominated the market for the past two decades, give or take. The company has had its pitfalls, but recent buyer reviews suggest the company is back in order.Double-layered nylon and double- and triple- heavy-duty nylon stitching means that there's a good chance you'll unravel before they do. The nylon, while stiff, prevents them from being the quickest drying pair of board shorts out there, but it will take more than a few run-ins with the reef to send these to the recycling bin. If you want to trade stiffness and durability for a little stretch and more length, look into Birdwell's Men's Stretch board shorts.If you're rough on your clothes like I am, a pair of Birdwell Beach Britches is a worthy addition to your collection of shorts. I especially appreciate how stain-resistant they are for fishing and boating outings when other board shorts often get ruined.Pros: Heavy-duty construction, classic designCons: Slow to dry, stiff (but that's what makes them durable)Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.