
I wish they were buying Garmin. Garmin understands battery life much better than Apple so with the right marketing and investments Garmin could bury the Apple Watch on the health monitoring front.

I wish they were buying Garmin. Garmin understands battery life much better than Apple so with the right marketing and investments Garmin could bury the Apple Watch on the health monitoring front.

Nope. My priority is it should have long enough battery to last the day without cutting features. Apple Watch can barely last a day and it doesn't even monitor your activity all the time.

Apple Watch does many things badly instead of doing a few things well. Surprisingly un-Apple design in that way. Truly a Tim product.


BTW here's Apple's own documentation where they admit they can't do continuous heart rate monitoring

[URL unfurl="true"]https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204666[/URL]

And McDonalds sells the most burgers so they must be the best too...

And McDonalds sells the most burgers so they must be the best too...

I see marathon runners using Garmin and walkers using Apple Watch.

Yup. Own an iPhone 7 Plus with a Samsung Galaxy Fit. So that's me.
Apple is separating the new smartphones into its usual low-cost versus high-cost categories, with big differences between the two models coming down to the camera, display, and battery life.
At first glance, the two devices have quite a few similarities, but the iPhone 11 takes a step forward in regards to cameras, battery life, and more.There are dozens if not hundreds of smaller new changes and tweaks that are included in iOS 13. 
One of iOS 13's major new features is a systemwide Dark Mode option, which matches the Dark Mode feature we got in macOS Mojave last year.
All-new modular design, starting at $5999.New 6K pro-level display, starting at $4999.Potential speed bump or more substantial update with triple-lens rear camera. MacRumors attracts a broad audience
of both consumers and professionals interested in
the latest technologies and products. We also boast an active community focused on
purchasing decisions and technical aspects of the iPhone, iPod, iPad, and Mac platforms.