 The elements of a good present — being thoughtful, useful, or novel — aren't restricted to a big budget. And most people on your holiday gifting list don't expect (or necessarily want) a big gesture. But the best gifts under $20 are hidden in a minefield of totally expendable knickknacks. To combat that, we've raked the internet and curated 51 of the best under-$25 gifts below for you to browse. All of them are things we have or would gladly buy and use in our daily lives.The Aztec Clay Mask is one of those cult-favorite products that was plucked from the depths of Amazon only to generate viral videos with over 4 million views on YouTube. Right now, it has over 12,600 five-star reviews on Amazon. It's been called "the world's most powerful facial" and it's also under $10. It can be mixed with water, but it works best with a little bit of apple cider vinegar. You can read a full review here.Food52's reusable straw sets come in a pretty color palette, and each pack includes carrying cases and cleaning squeegees. They can toss one set in their bag, leave one at work, and keep one in the car.  Mario Badescu's Drying Lotion has acheived just as much cult status over the years as the company's famous facial sprays. It targets pimples with a cocktail of acne-fighting ingredients while you sleep, and it's one product we use daily in our own lives.   Perfect for the outdoorsy types, an REI membership offers a lifetime of benefits for a one-time purchase. That includes 10%-back dividends, special offers, access to in-store REI Garage sales, and special pricing on REI classes and events. Find out more here.These little silicone cups hug the remaining half of an avocado to keep it fresh in the fridge.  Order them a houseplant for under $20 with The Sill. If you choose one of the company's chic potters, the cost is closer to $30 for small plants.  A milk frother is an unexpectedly convenient tool to have around the house, and it can make a frothy latte or cappucino that's closer to what you'd buy at the cafe.A small but convenient gift, smart wifi plugs let the owner turn their electronics on or off from anywhere with their smartphone thanks to the Kasa app. If they have a smart home gadget, they can use the voice assistant to turn things on and off as well. In the Kasa app, they can also set schedules and "scenes" for controlling many devices with a single button. Silk is often used in products like headbands and pillowcases to reduce friction and breakage of hair, and these four hair ties serve the same purpose. Designed to keep hair from catching, crimping, and pulling, these hair ties are gentle on strands and around the wrist. Plus, this set comes in an ornament-like bauble.It gives you unlimited access to movies and shows from Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, National Geographic, and 20th Century Fox, and costs just $6.99 a month or $69.99 a year after a free seven-day trial. Read everything there is to know about Disney+ over here.And if you need some binge-spiration, here are all the new movies available to stream.This tiny waffle maker is perfect for single-serving breakfasts, or for meal prep (just freeze your waffles ahead of time). It's compact for confined spaces, heats up in a few minutes, and has a non-stick surface that's easy to clean.This is the cookbook to beeline it to if your recipient loves to host friends for dinner.Author Alison Roman shuns mild-mannered foods and favors crunchy, citrusy, smoky, and otherwise bold flavors. Expect how-tos for a DIY martini bar, coconut-braised chicken and chickpeas, and pans of lemony turmeric tea cake. If this isn't the right fit, check out other great options here.  Is there a good concert, play, or game coming up in the next few months you think they'd love? It doesn't have to be expensive to be impactful. Grab tickets and make a night of it — or, if you live far away, make sure they get to go with a friend or two. This cold brew maker is as inexpensive as it is convenient, and it saves me hundreds of dollars per year on iced coffee. It easily fits into most refrigerator doors, is simple to use, and makes a good amount of cold brew at once. If they need more than one quart, there's also a two-quart option.This Jason Markk spray repels water and oil to keep your shoes free of stains and water spots. It's water-based, so it's okay to use on a variety of materials — from suede to nubuck leather to canvas and others. It sprays a fine mist that covers large areas both quickly and evenly. MeUndies makes some of the most comfortable underwear and loungewear for men and women that we've found at Insider Picks. And, beyond that, we love their festive patterns.Because they're pricier than most people are willing to pay for their own underwear, these make a great and surprisingly luxurious gift. These upcycled coasters are made from reclaimed vinyl records and sealed against moisture. Each set includes a variety of music genres. Hydro flask's cult-favorite thermos keeps hot drinks hot for up to six hours, and cold drinks cold for up to 24 hours. Two jokers (Björk and David Bowie) and 52 playing cards featuring music's greatest legends — from Madonna and Prince to Jimi Hendrix, Bob Dylan, and Amy Winehouse — make up a fun pack of cards.Touchland makes hand sanitizers that aren't sticky or drying. We like them because they're fast-evaporating, moisturizing, and effective. Perfect for eating on the go or at a campsite, this utensil kit comes with two stainless steel straws, one silicone straw tip, one straw cleaner, one stainless steel spork, and one pair of stainless steel chopsticks.United by Blue is an eco-friendly outdoors retailer, and the carrier is made from 100% recycled polyester ripstop with a water-resistant finish.  Incase probably makes either your laptop case or phone case, but they also have covers for your AirPods. It's lightweight, adds another layer of protection, and keeps your charging case from getting scuffed or scratched. This affordable 10.25-inch cast iron skillet is another wunderkind plucked from the depths of Amazon. It has over 12,400 five-star reviews, and Lodge has been making cast iron cookware since 1896, so they've learned a thing or two about what makes it great. Enjoy unlimited access to hundreds of thousands of books, audiobooks, and magazines for less than $10 a month with Scribd. (Or $13 per month for access to Scribd and the New York Times). If they aren't a bibliophile already, Scribd will make them one. Speks are one of our all-time favorite fidget accessories. They're tiny magnetic balls that you can break apart, reconfigure, and otherwise mold, mash, and build with. They help us divert just enough energy to remain productive throughout the day. If your giftee is interested or involved in activism, this mug covered with the mugs of Gloria Steinem, Harvey Milk, Shirley Chisholm, and other great American activists is a unique gift they'll actually like owning. It's from New York's fun, eclectic dishware shop, Fishs Eddy. Are they a whiz in the kitchen, or a big fan of apple cider? Switch it up with these elevated cinnamon sticks. They're made with Korintje cinnamon renown for its intense spicy flavor and curled "quills" of dried evergreen bark that hails from the volcanic soil on the slopes of Mt. Korintje. They'll be on the receiving end of a delicious convergence of spice and fragrant essential oils. Inivisibobble makes popular spiral hair ties that apply even pressure to a ponytail, providing a strong but comfortable hold. This set comes with six hair ties in two limited-edition colorways.Smith & Cult's rich, chip-resistant nail polish comes in 46 colors and the kind of beautiful bottle you leave out on the vanity because it's just that nice to look at. The formulas are vegan, cruelty-free, and don't have potentially harmful ingredients like formaldehyde or camphor,  among others. This pack of 24 tea bags in different varieties supplies a full month of daily spontaneity and self-care. According to Pukka Herbs, all its teas and supplements are ethically and sustainably sourced. When you scratch off a card from LottoLove, you won't win any money. Instead, you "win" a charitable prize that's donated to someone in need. There are four possible prizes, which help provide clean water, solar light, nutritious meals, or literacy tools. To date, LottoLove and its charitable partners have impacted lives in over 60 countries.Perfume is often expensive, and scent is very personal, but samples let the wearer live with the scent for a few days before committing. Pinrose's Good Intentions Sampler Kit makes that possible, with eight mini bottles of its signature scents. They can find their favorite and keep the others for travel. Tower 28 makes soft lip glosses with subtle color and a non-sticky, moisturizing formula with ingredients like raspberry seed oil and rosehip oil. Pick it up in four colors. These cute Bloody Mary glasses make a playful science out a truly perfect spicy and savory Bloody Mary. Beeswax Sandwich Wrap is made from cotton infused with beeswax and natural oils. It acts as an eco-friendly substitute to plastic sandwich bags, and which can be reused over and over and over again.Aquis' cult-favorite hair towels have inspired a slew of rave reviews online, including one from our own team of product reviewers.The towels are made from a proprietary fabric called Aquitex that's composed of ultra-fine fibers (finer than silk) that work to reduce the amount of friction that hair experiences while in its weakest state. Plus, it speeds up drying time by as much as 50%.Did anyone — anyone at all — say cocktails? Monin's holiday cheer collection has everything needed for festive drinks, be they cocktails, cocoas, lattes, mochas, or ciders. It includes five syrups ranging in flavors from gingerbread cookies with a hint of cinnamon to toasted campfire treats. Plus, Monin has a recycling initiative that works to improve the health of bee populations. How nice would it be if every time you lost something, you could find it within a few minutes? Use your smartphone to make the Tile Mate ring aloud, and you'll be able to locate your keys or wallet using the sound. This Tony Moly Lavender set is made to soothe irritated skin and bring about instant relaxation. The set is comprised of two sheet masks, a sleeping mask, and hand cream. Laneige's hyper-successful Lip Sleeping Mask uses a combination of vitamin C, hyaluronic acid, minerals, antioxidants, and fruit extracts to form a protective layer over the lips to lock in moisture overnight. It has over 7,000 ratings on Sephora, and an average rating of 4.5-stars out of five. Baggu bags are popular for a reason — they come in tons of fun prints and can fold down to pretty much nothing even though they can hold 50 pounds of stuff. If you're going to buy an armband for a runner, you're probably going to wind up buying this version from Tribe. It has over 18,000 reviews on Amazon (with a 4.2-star rating overall) and, while it's not the most perfect out there, it's frequently recommended for its water-resistant and no-slip design. Tommy John is another company responsible for some of the very best loungewear and underwear on the internet. Their knee-length socks have light compression to support blood flow, and the "comfort cuff" design means you should be able to peel them off without finding marks left over. Whether they use it as a desk accessory or to prop up their YouTube search for "how to chop onions" while they cook at home, a lightweight, adjustable phone stand comes in handy more often than you'd expect. If you're looking for a good book to gift, look no further than the reading lists already on Amazon — form the best books of the month, to the best books of the year, to the 100 you should read in a lifetime. We loved "Circe," "Educated," and "On Earth We're Briefly Gorgeous" this year. Find nearly 30 books the Insider Picks team recommended last year. This set of breakfast tools makes a thoughtful gift for anyone who wants a delicious meal faster, which is never a bad thing in the morning.  For a sentimental gift under $25, we recommend these beautifully designed photo books that look like a personal magazine, curated by you for them.Herbivore Botanical's bath salts include nutrient-rich Pacific sea salts combined with ylang-ylang and vanilla essential oil. They'll moisturize the skin and provide a deeply relaxing, calming effect on the brain to decrease anxiety and restlessness.  Perfect for color-treated, heat-styled, and otherwise damaged hair, It's a 10's hair mask deep-conditions strands with a blend of moisturizing ingredients like oat kernel extract, apricot kernel oil, sweet almond oil, and linseed extract. We ranked it the best hair mask you can buy. Gift them some relaxing time spent sipping their favorite tea (which you could pick up as an accompanying gift). Bioderma's makeup remover is a cult-favorite among makeup artists, celebrities, the average person, and the Insider Picks team. We've ranked it the best makeup remover you can buy, and it's one of the many beauty products tourists are known to stock up on when visiting a French pharmacy. Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.