








        Amazon
      

The holidays are both great and terrible. The former, because they're an opportunity to make the lives of your loved ones a little better, and the latter, because that knowledge can put pressure on you during an already hectic time of the year.To make it easier, I've cherrypicked a few of our favorite tried-and-true gifts from Amazon that would work for most boyfriends, no matter how long (or short) you've been together. Check out 20+ options available on Amazon below, and if you still need some ideas, you can find all of our holiday gift guides right here. Hydro Flask has become a cult favorite thanks to water bottles that keep cold drinks cold up to 24 hours and hot drinks hot for up to 12 hours. Bellroy is one of our favorite brands for men's wallets and they make the best men's travel wallet you can buy. It's designed around the size of a passport, and it holds everything in designated sections: travel documents, money, cards, passport, and a pen just in case. An RFID blocking material protects cards and passports from being skimmed. We recommend Brooklinen often, and for good reason. We think they make the best high-end sheets at the best price, and most of the Insider Picks team sleeps with Brooklinen on their own beds. Pick up the Luxe Sateen Set in a classic color and prepare for tougher mornings getting out of bed. Leatherology is a startup we recommend for its affordable high-end leather goods, and you can shop it directly from Amazon now. This particular leather toiletry bag comes in a handful of classic colors and has compartments for pretty much everything. It's the sort of gift that they'll wind up using often, and that'll age well with them. Amazon's Smart Plug lets you control devices and appliances remotely or with your voice. He'll be able to schedule lights and appliances to turn off or on through an app or tell his Alexa-enabled speaker to do it for him, so there's no need to get up off the couch before movie night begins.  Jaybird makes some of the most trusted wireless headphones, and we think its Vista earbuds are the best version yet. They're sweatproof and waterproof, and a quick charge of five minutes translates to an hour of play time. Fully charged, he'll have six hours of audio play and, with the case, an additional 10 hours. The Instant Pot is another cult-favorite product that's worth its hype. It combines seven kitchen appliances into one, from a rice cooker to a steamer. It makes weekday meals easier and helps maximize space. We've also ranked it the best pressure cooker you can buy. Happy Socks is another startup we like that you can find on Amazon. The company makes fun, multi-colored socks that are an easy way to add some color into a professional wardrobe. If he's into music, this coffee table book from "Rolling Stone" is a good candidate for something he'll love to own but would probably never buy for himself. It distills the last 50 years of music journalism and cultural criticism into one volume with plenty of pictures from the 1960s to now. Whether he's constantly traveling or just values good sleep above all else, Trtl is the way to go if you're looking for the best travel pillow. A soft, lightweight fleece is wrapped around a plastic neck support on one side, so you can rest it on either shoulder or your chest to keep your head in a comfortable position. We also highly recommend the newest version, Trtl Pillow Plus ($59.99). YnM's weighted blanket is an affordable loophole in a relatively pricey category, and it's one of the more breathable versions out there. The idea is that weighted blankets create more restful sleep and can help decrease anxiety by creating the sort of comforting pressure used when swaddling babies or in thunder jackets for dogs. Pick up one that's about 10% of his body weight.  You can find a full review here. If you're looking for one of the most useful high-end gifts you can give, this is a good place to start. Bose QuietComfort headphones have earned their reputation among audiophiles for their noise-cancellation and balanced audio performance. They're also Alexa-enabled for voice access to music and information. The Echo Dot is Amazon's most popular smart speaker precisely because of its small size and thousands of Alexa skills. He can hook up other smart devices to it, play music, ask it for information like the weather or news, and set alarms. Turn a dumb TV into a smart one with a streaming stick that provides access to services like Netflix, Prime Video, HBO Now, Showtime, Sling TV, and more.Is he into NASA, or LEGOs, or any excuse to spend hours building a model (or adult toy)? Congratulations, your gifting journey ends here. Sometimes personal upkeep is the only ritual we have that's just about us, and a little upgrade to daily grooming can make an outsized impact. The Art of Shaving makes a luxurious cream that softens the beard for a close, comfortable shave that protects the skin from razor burn. Even if he wouldn't buy it for himself, he'll probably like using this. Say it with food. Maybe also pick up tacos. Duke Cannon makes military-inspired grooming products that go beyond gimmicky. We actually really like using them, and the company supports active-duty military members and veterans by donating 5% of its net profits to causes that benefit them. In the past, that's included K9s for Warriors and Fisher House. While we stand by the products and the mission, the branding can be pretty heavily macho and a little off-putting for some. If that's not on-brand for your boyfriend, skip it. Sleek and functional leather touchscreen gloves will let him use devices in the bitter cold. Plus, this pair has touchscreen tech in all ten fingers and palm rather than a couple of fingers on each hand.  It may not be the most surprising gift, but it's definitely one of the most convenient and useful. If he's always leaving the house with a half-dead phone or has the sort of long days that outlast a single charge, this will keep him with backup on commutes or travel. We ranked this one the best portable charger iPhone users can buy. This is one of the highest-rated home brewing kits under $50 on Amazon, and it comes with all the essentials. The equipment is also reusable, so if he enjoys using it, he can brew another batch later on.If he's been known to lose his keys, wallet, or other important belongings, Tile may be his favorite gift of the year. He can use a smartphone to ring his wallet or keys if they're within 400 feet.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.