 








        Paul Steven/Shutterstock/Business Insider
      

Bringing home a new puppy is exciting, but it also comes with a certain degree of responsibility. In addition to making sure your puppy is fed and properly cared for, you also need to train them. House-training a puppy doesn't need to be a difficult and lengthy process, however. With the right supplies and a little determination, you can house-train your puppy in a matter of weeks.To help you house-train your puppy as quickly as possible, we've compiled some recommendations for the best potty training products for puppies. Updated on 11/04/2019 by Lisa Sabatini: Updated formatting, links, and prices.When it comes to house training a puppy, a high-quality crate is a must-have. Not only does a crate provide your puppy with a comfortable place to sleep, but it enables you to keep him contained when you are not able to physically watch him yourself. Keeping your puppy in the crate overnight and when you are away from home can speed up the crate training process. Our top pick for the best puppy training crate is the MidWest Life Stages Folding Dog Crate. Available in seven sizes with a single- or double-door design, the crate is perfect for a growing puppy. It features a wire divider that you can use to customize the size of the crate as your puppy grows, saving you the cost of buying multiple crates. More importantly, the crate a leak-proof plastic pan for easy clean-up, a strong carrying handle, rubber roller feet to protect your floor, and heavy-duty slide-bolt latches. My Sweet Puppy says the MidWest Life Stages crate offers maximum visibility and ventilation while also being lightweight and easy to store or transport. Wirecutter gives this crate its Runner-Up award, while Canine Journal recommends it for training.While it may not be durable enough for very destructive dogs, and some dogs may be able to manipulate the latches, it is still our top pick for puppies.Pros: Lightweight and durable construction, available in seven sizes with one or two doors, divider to adjust size for growing puppies, leak-proof plastic pan, strong carrying handle, rubber roller feet to protect floor, heavy-duty slide-bolt latchCons: May not be strong enough for very destructive dogs, some dogs will be able to manipulate the latches, does not come with a crate pad If you live in a condo or apartment without easy access to the outdoors, indoor house-training may be your best option. Training your puppy to use pee pads can make life easier for both of you and help to keep the mess contained. This training method is not perfect, but it works well for many dog owners. If you'd like to give it a try, we recommend Four Paws Wee-Wee Pads. With five layers of protection and a quilted surface, Four Paws Wee-Wee Pads are highly absorbent. With 100% leak-proof protection, these pads give your puppy an acceptable place to "go" and you peace of mind, knowing that you won't come home to a mess. These pads have a wide border to contain liquid, and they are treated with an attractant to draw your puppy when nature calls. The pads are very affordable, and they come in packages ranging from 7 to 200 pads. Best Reviews says these pads are very absorbent and that they have no lingering smell. Top Dog Tips and My Sweet Puppy also recommend these pads.Pros: Five layers of leak-proof protection, quilted texture for maximum absorption, can handle multiple uses, treated to attract puppies, no lingering smell after use, available in several sizesCons: May not be ideal for large or giant breeds, some pads not properly sealed to water-resistant backing, might leak if dog pees along the edge instead of the middleWhen you are house-training your puppy, you should expect a few accidents to occur along the way because your puppy can only hold his bladder for about one hour per month of age. Though pet stains are an expected part of house-training, they can be stubborn and difficult to remove. Plus, your puppy may be tempted to repeat the act if the carpet retains some of his scent. To remove both pet stains and odors, you need Rocco & Roxie's Professional Strength Stain & Odor Eliminator. The spray is made with a powerful formula that cuts through even the toughest stains and odors with strong enzymatic action. It works on all surfaces including carpet, hardwood, and upholstery. This stain remover is professional-strength, but it is also gentle and safe enough for use around children and pets. It may be more costly than other options, but it is well worth the price. Petsho highlights the spray's ability to remove not only the stain itself but also its odor to discourage pets from using the same area again. Dogs Recommend also speaks highly of Rocco & Roxie's spray, noting that it lives up to its name by quickly and effectively removing stains and odors. Pros: Unique enzymatic action, powerful against all stains and odors, can be used on any surface, discourages puppy from reusing the same area, safe for pets and childrenCons: More expensive than many options, cleaner may have an unpleasant or strong odorIf you choose to train your puppy to do his business indoors, you should consider buying a puppy potty. While there are different models to choose from, the most effective puppy potties are designed to look like patches of grass. This design can help your puppy make the transition to going outdoors, if that is your goal, or it can just be a more attractive option than a puppy pee pad. Our top pick for the best indoor puppy potty is the Fresh Patch Disposable Dog Potty. The Fresh Patch Disposable Dog Potty consists of a lush bed of hydroponically grown grass in a recyclable cardboard tray. The fresh grass naturally attracts your puppy to the bed and neutralizes odors while the complex root system absorbs liquid on contact. An excellent alternative to outdoor training or pee pads, this dog potty lasts for several weeks, depending on the dog, and it is completely disposable. Top Dog Tips comments on the quality of the live grass and its absorbency. Though each pad is only recommended for dogs up to 25 pounds, you could join a few pads up together for larger dogs. Fido Savvy also recommends this disposable potty, confirming that it is all natural and eco-friendly.Pros: Made with hydroponically grown grass, comes in a disposable cardboard tray, made with 100% recyclable materials, complex root system absorbs liquid quickly, real grass naturally contains odor and attracts puppy, one tray can last for several weeksCons: Doesn't have a leak-proof tray or lining for 100% leak protection, only recommended for dogs up to 25 pounds, if grass is not fresh it may not work wellThe key to house training your puppy is twofold. First, you have to take him outside often enough that he won't be tempted to do his business in the house. Second, you have to reward him when he goes outside, so he wants to repeat the behavior. Having some tasty training treats on hand is essential if you want your puppy to become house-trained quickly. Our top pick for training treats that are small, tasty, and good for your puppy is Zuke's Mini Naturals Training Treats. Made with wholesome natural ingredients, Zuke's Mini Naturals Training Treats are a training treat you can feel good about giving your puppy. You can get the treats in a peanut butter flavor or five other meat-rich recipes. These treats are chewy and full of flavor, so they're sure to attract your puppy's attention. Not only are Zuke's treats made with healthy ingredients, but they contain fewer than 3 calories each. They are also highly affordable compared to some of the natural dog treats on the market. Canine Journal recommends Zuke's Mini Naturals Training Treats because they are healthy, affordable, and delicious for dogs.Pros: Made from wholesome natural ingredients, five flavors with real meat, made without corn wheat or soy, no artificial additives, small size perfect for training, less than 3 calories each, affordableCons: All recipes contain grains and are not gluten-free, may trigger food allergies in grain-sensitive dogs, some recipes have a strong odor  With so many dog toys available, it can be hard to find the right toy for your dog. That's why we've done the research to find the best dog toys for chewing, chasing, fetching, treat dispensing, and playing tug. Here are the best dog toys you can buy:Your dog deserves high-quality food that's nutritious and healthy. That's why we scoured the reviews and compared dozens of products to find the top dog food brands in different categories. Here is the best dog food you can buy:Your dog deserves a healthy and balanced diet which includes both kibble and treats. Make sure your dog's treats are made from wholesome, natural ingredients, and if you really want to pamper your pooch, consider going organic. Here are our top picks for the best organic dog treats:Whether your dog has short or long fur, a slender or thick build, a snow jacket is a winter necessity to keep them warm and protected during daily walks and outdoor play. Dog snow jackets come in all shapes and sizes, so we evaluated the many options to help you make the best choice for your dog.Before you bring your new puppy home, you should stock up on all the things they will need to be happy and healthy in their furever home. With our expert opinion and in-depth research, we've rounded up some of the best basic puppy supplies around.Depending on why you use need to use a dog muzzle, for how long, and your dog's facial structure, you may want to consider a basket muzzle, soft muzzle, short-snout muzzle, or a custom-fit muzzle. Here are the best dog muzzles you can buy:If your dog has been diagnosed with a nutritional deficiency or a specific health problem, your veterinarian may recommend a supplement. Here are our top picks for the best dog supplements:A no-pull harness is a safe and effective method for training your dog to walk nicely on a leash. These are our top picks for the best harnesses to keep your dog from pulling:Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.