








        The Google Home Mini is just $19.99 for Cyber Week.
      
Alyssa Powell/Business Insider

Updated 12/3/19 at 10:06 a.m. ETCyber Monday has come and gone, but there are still a lot of extended Cyber Monday — or Cyber Week, if you will  — deals running. This year, you can get many Google devices for much less.Whether you're looking for a new Google Pixel smartphone or you want to outfit your home with smart speakers, security cameras, and more from Google's brand Nest, you're in luck.Google's latest Pixel 4 smartphone is on sale, and you can find Nest smart speakers, smart thermostats, and security cameras at a discount across the web.The deals have been running since Black Friday, so you can shop them right now. Many of them will end this week, so you'll want to get them before they're gone. We'll keep updating this post with new deals as we find them.Amazon is offering $200 off the unlocked Pixel 4, so if you don't want to activate the phone with a new line on Verizon, AT&T, or Sprint, you'll be able to get the standard-sized Pixel 4 for $599. The Pixel 4 is powered by the top-of-the-line Qualcomm Snapdragon 855 processor and 6GB of RAM. You can get up to 128GB of storage, and the dual-sensor camera lens takes excellent pictures. With the Astrophotography Mode, you can even take stunning pictures of the starry night sky. It's one of the best phones of 2019 — and with this discount, it's an even better choice.Google's smart home brand Nest has lots of great devices and many of them are on sale. You can save on the popular Nest Cam IQ, as well as the Nest Hello doorbell and smoke alarms like the Nest Protect.For those who want a home security system, the Nest Secure home security kit is on sale too. It comes with window and door sensors as well as an alarm so you can scare off intruders and keep your home safe.Nest started out making smart thermostats, and they're still among the best ones you can buy. The popular Nest Learning Thermostat and the cheaper Nest Learning Thermostat E are both on sale. They allow you to easily control your home's temperature from afar and save on energy costs. Google has also discounted its smart speakers like the new Nest Mini and the Nest Hub Max. You can also get the Google Home Mini for just $20.Cyber Monday deals on the Nest Wi-Fi router are also live for those who need to upgrade their Wi-Fi at home.Google's Chromecast makes it easy to stream content from your phone or computer to your TV. If you want a basic streaming stick, the regular Chromecast is a good buy, but if you have a 4K TV, you should get the Ultra.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.