Home » Cars » Ford Mustang Mach-E revealed – electric SUV with up to 439 hp, 839 Nm, 0-100 km/h 3.5 secs, 600 km range
In Cars, Ford, Hybrids, EVs and Alternative Fuel, International News				 / By Jonathan Lee				 / 18 November 2019 1:29 pm				 / 12 comments We’ve seen the big announcements, teasers and leaks, and now it’s time for the real deal. Ford has finally unveiled its long-awaited, high-performance, all-electric SUV, and it’s this – the Ford Mustang Mach-E.Purists may bemoan the fact that Dearborn has used the storied Mustang nameplate for a high-riding family car that burns no petrol, but the Blue Oval promises to deliver the style, handling and performance to back it up. While the specifications are only preliminary for now, the quoted figures make for some decent reading.For a start, the Mach-E will be available with either rear- or all-wheel drive, with the latter being possible due to the use of dual motors. So far, so Tesla, and according to Top Gear, the car will be offered with at least 254 hp and 420 Nm of torque with a single motor and the smaller 75.7 kWh lithium-ion battery.Get the larger 98.8 kWh battery and the power figure swells to 281 hp, and Ford is promising a WLTP-rated range of up to 600 km with this variant. Both models are expected to get from zero to 100 km/h in under eight seconds, while the all-wheel drive version with the 75.7 kWh battery and outputs of 254 hp and 565 Nm should do the century sprint in the sixes – a target that would beat base versions of the Porsche Macan.So too will the more powerful 98.8 kWh model, which will boast 332 hp (more than the regular Mustang in EcoBoost form). Of more importance to enthusiasts is the GT, which the company says will best higher-end models from both Porsche and Ferrari. This will get the full 439 hp and 830 Nm that Ford is targeting.Two variants of the GT will be offered. The “base” model will get to 100 km/h in under four seconds, making it quicker than a Porsche Macan Turbo. There will also be a Performance Edition that will do the same benchmark in the mid-three-second range which, as chairman Bill Ford Jr said on stage at today’s reveal, is just as fast as a Ferrari Portofino, “and you know how much we like beating Ferrari.”Hidden under the floor of the Mach-E, the battery is liquid-cooled and sealed inside a waterproof case, surrounded by crash-absorbing protection. A Ford Connected Charging station will add an estimated 62 km of range per hour of charging (on the 98.8 kWh rear-wheel drive model) via a 250-volt domestic outlet, while the included mobile charger will add 14 km per hour through the same outlet.Ford says it will offer multiple home charging solutions and provide owners access to the FordPass Charging Network. With 12,500 charging stations and growing, it is said to be the largest public charging network in the United States, and includes DC fast charging stations. In Europe, it is partnering with NewMotion to utilise the latter’s network of more than 125,000 stations in 21 countries, and it is also a founder of the IONITY consortium that plans to build 400 fast charging stations by the end of next year.Speaking of fast charging stations, the Mach-E will have a peak charging rate of 150 kW using DC power, which Ford says can add up to 93 km of range in just 10 minutes, and charge a standard 75.7 kWh rear-wheel drive model from 10% to 80% in approximately 38 minutes.The Mustang name is also about driving performance, and to that end the all-wheel drive versions are able to drive the front and rear axles independently thanks to the dual motors, improving acceleration and handling. The company has tuned the system to deliver increased traction, having tested the Mach-E in wet and snowy conditions to enable it to aid control in slippery situations.Three drive modes – Whisper, Engage and Unbridled – tailor the performance, steering response, instrument display and even the sound to suit your mood. Performance options include Brembo’s latest Flexira aluminium brake callipers, designed to be as small as a floating calliper whilst maintaining the functionality of a fixed calliper. The GT models are also equipped with MagneRide adaptive magnetorheological dampers.Despite being an SUV, the Mach-E has lifted quite a number of notable design cues from the regular coupé and convertible models. The typical big Mustang grille can be seen here, albeit in relief as an electric vehicle doesn’t need all that cooling. It is flanked by slim headlights with triple daytime running light bars, and underlined by a broad air intake with active shutters.The long bonnet is another Mustang hallmark, as are the rear haunches that punch upwards over the wheels. Surfacing over the flanks is kept clean thanks to the absence of conventional door handles – you get in by approaching the car with the key or your smartphone (proximity sensors open the door for you), or by pressing buttons hidden within the window frames.The tall roofline is also cleverly disguised using a mix of black and body-coloured surfaces, ensuring the Mach-E offers a reasonably practical interior while maintaining the Mustang’s sleek fastback silhouette. The trademark triple-bar tail lights, set against a concave background, can be found at the rear.Inside, the dashboard has been simplified, incorporating the pony car’s twin cowls and full-width air vents. Most controls are clustered within the massive 15.5-inch portrait touchscreen with an embedded physical knob that runs the next generation of SYNC infotainment. It gets cloud-based connectivity and voice control, wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto and over-the-air software updates that add features over time.Elsewhere, there’s a floating, flip-up armrest that doubles as a storage space for purses and bags. You also get options such as a premium Bang & Olufsen sound system with speakers spanning across the dashboard, as well as a panoramic glass roof with a special infrared-protecting glass coating and an insulating layer to keep the cabin cool. The boot measures 402 litres and expands to 1,420 litres with the rear seats folded, while a separate 100 litre drainable front boot allows you to store wet or muddy sports clothing.

Research Ford Cars at Related Cars for Sale on CommentsWhat is the price @ USA?The Ford vs ferrari + porsche …The latest offspring of my venerated Gen2. Welkam to this world!This is why Gen2 is a game over sedan as fanboys are comparing Gen2 with this Super EV SUV. OMG OMG!Not a fan of the giant tablet tho , but the rest of the car is awesome thoRemember when ford made the GT90 , i managed to drive one in NFS2this one confirm forever not come to Malaysia
i thinking migrate out from Malaysia
life is short, i don’t want regret my life ending here..kekeThe center info display is too big!jacked up gen2 with large ipad stamped on dashboardThe car at the 1st pic kinda look loke s HR-VShould just name it as Bustangi see hrv’s sport rims…Add a commentYou can either post as a guest or have an option to register. Among the advantages of registering is once a name has been registered, a guest cannot post using that name. If you have an account, please login before commenting. If you wish to have a profile photo next to your name, register at Gravatar using the same e-mail address you use to comment.
Your Name

required 
Your Email

required 
Comment


 

Most Read Stories5th November 20196th November 20198th November 201912th November 20198th November 201912th November 20198th November 20196th November 20196th November 20198th November 2019Copyright © 2019 Driven Communications Sdn Bhd. All Rights Reserved.