The question of whether to change or retain your name is often not the right (or only) question that senior leaders should be asking. Click HerePannos Marketing breaks it down and discusses why it’s vital that your institution’s website exudes a certain look, feel and tone that brings your brand to life. Click HereAs financial institutions seek new channels to acquire consumers and deepen their relationships, a new approach is taking hold. Register for this webinar now. Click HereBy Jim Marous, Co-Publisher of The Financial Brand and Owner/Publisher of the Digital Banking ReportWhile optimistic about the future, Steve Wozniak is not ready to turn over his identity (nor his Tesla) to artificial intelligence anytime soon. At a conference in Budapest I attended, he referenced deleting his Facebook account because of privacy concerns, and that he no longer believes that a totally autonomous car will happen in his lifetime. But Wozniak retains the passion and enthusiasm for technology and innovation that made him a household name as Apple’s co-founder.When he and Steve Jobs started Apple, they were trying to develop a new kind of computer that would improve the user experience beyond what was available at the time. The rest is history. Today, “The Woz” is a brilliant engineer, who keeps his eye on what is happening in technology, digital transformation and entrepreneurship.Wozniak is involved in numerous business and philanthropic ventures, focusing primarily on computer capabilities in schools and stressing hands-on learning and encouraging student creativity. He’s revealed that he has given the vast majority of his wealth to charity.Staying on top of current technology trends, Wozniak has even become involved in the controversy around the algorithms used to determine credit limits on the newly introduced Apple Card. Concerned about gender discrimination, he used Twitter to join the debate, saying that he received a credit limit ten times higher than his wife, despite the couple sharing all their assets.I had the unique opportunity to sit down for a one-on-one Banking Transformed interview with Wozniak as part of the Novathon innovation event in Budapest. In our interview, Wozniak discusses his personal life, his focus on education, recommendations for entrepreneurs, the state of innovation and his memories of Steve Jobs.Additional Banking Transformed Interviews:21 powerful ways to use customer experience metrics to make a tangible business impact in financial services. Click Here28% of cybersecurity incidents involve internal actors. Is your credit union doing everything to prevent breaches? This infographic reveals hidden threats IT can’t always prevent. Click HereWozniak: I don’t know. I just live. I’m into life. I’m into exploring, having fun, learning new things, especially learning new things when they’re related to areas of my life that have been important. Technology, digital, computers and what they can do for us. I just enjoy having fun … a fun life.Wozniak: We should have more technology and STEM education in schools and better prepare people. I think we should give them the ability to encounter projects that they can build on their own with little Raspberry Pis – small, low-cost computers with a lot of sensors and motors and everything. If somebody is interested in that, let them have a whole curriculum where they take course after course, not just one course here and there throughout high school … but continually explore it as a curriculum.Special schools sometimes do allow this to an extent. Or it could be done part-time after school. The thing is, it’s not just productivity for the United States, or for the world, to learn these sorts of things that are part of the future and what your job is going to be. It’s fun.It can be the most fun thing to the right people. If it’s not fun to somebody, don’t force them to do it.Wozniak: That’s a social problem that’s always been with us, and never goes away as things modify and new equipment comes into the picture. It could be in farming, it could be in mining, it could be in technology.There’s no easy way around this because you’ve worked your whole life to know exactly what you do, maybe putting shoes on horses, and then all of a sudden that job doesn’t exist anymore. What do you do? How do you retrain yourself and learn a new occupation? You’ll just be a beginner with a lower salary level and all that.No, it’s very difficult for society. We just have to plan on building training programs and all of us should handle it kind of like insurance. I believe that government support and socialization are good ways to go.Wozniak: I’ve never really thought about that because I always think of innovation as coming from individuals who want to change and do things better. I don’t think the government says, “Oh, we want innovation.” I think the government would always say, “We want it,” but they aren’t the ones who can create it. Only the ones who can create are the ones that really know what a realistic approach to innovation is.Wozniak: It begins with honesty. Listen to other people. Realize that it’s going to take many different talents to make a successful startup or a successful company. If you’re an engineer, listen to the ideas from marketing and from the business side. If you’re in marketing, listen to the ideas from the engineers in all of your thinking.Before you write a business plan, please involve the engineers who are going to actually be able to create the product for you. Don’t say, “Hey, we’ll just go raise some money. We’re just going to be a business that does ‘X’, and then after we have the money, we’ll hire some engineers in whatever country or part of the world we feel like, where it doesn’t cost as much.” No, don’t think that way. Include engineers in your thinking, and listen to others in the organization.More than that, don’t just go for skill sets – people who have the skills to create your new idea and your new product. Look for people that get along together, that have similar personalities, and like each other and do things together and socialize together. Personalities – psychologists should be involved in picking a lot of the startup teams.Wozniak: Mostly, I remember the times we had before Apple. Strange as that sounds, we just had a lot of fun times laughing together and exploring and being excited about what was going on and being kids.It was a type of closeness that was just so important to me. After Apple got going, he was so great at his thinking and his way of seeing the future. The trouble is he was very poor at executing, and he didn’t know computers and we had a lot of failures at Apple. Eventually, he came back and his success was not in computers. It was with the iPod, a human-centric device. He understood humans.Additional Banking Transformed Interviews:Wozniak: I don’t see a lot of the young startup people that have much better minds and thinking than those that are part of existing organizations. I have some reservations though. For instance, Elon Musk saw that the need was not just for an electric car. You had to have the superb charging stations in the United States that no other cars can deal with for long trips. But, I also disdain his being “above it all.” He misleads a lot of people into thinking what artificial intelligence will do. I have plus and minus feelings.Jack Dorsey has always impressed me. Almost everything he’s done and spoken of is really good – thinking of people and thinking the right way. I agree with his business directions and his business models.Jim Marous is co-publisher of The Financial Brand and publisher of the Digital Banking Report, a subscription-based publication that provides deep insights into the digitization of banking, with over 150 reports in the digital archive available to subscribers. You can follow Jim on Twitter and LinkedIn, or visit his professional website.This article was originally published on November 18, 2019. All content © 2019 by The Financial Brand and may not be reproduced by any means without permission.Quickly learn and understand the channels and use cases that video banking can provide, by learning from your peers and the inventors of video banking. Click HereTake a deep dive into the first 20 'Forbes Top 100 Best Banks in America' to analyze digital experiences across the industry. Click HereLaunching a digital bank is plagued with pitfalls associated with legacy ways of thinking at traditional financial institutions - technology choices are critical today. Click HereYet 87% long for financial stability. Offer them the help they need with branded budgeting and cash-flow tools. Click HereAutomation tools have the power to drive targeted communications and streamline campaign development. Click HereHear how one financial institution in an agricultural region used a rebuild to invest in its own future, as well as leading the way for the community. Click HereRaddon’s newest research study investigates what drives engagement nationally and how FIs can keep their employees satisfied. Click HereEvery month, digital-first or ‘app-based’ banks acquire millions of new users. Learn why traditional banks struggle to catch-up, and are threatened with extinction by 2025. Click HereNew articles with ideas and insights straight to your inbox every week.More about Featured ContentBranches are still the #1 driver of market share for bank brands. Learn how to effectively balance efficiency and experience to right-size your retail network. Click HereDo you know the real reasons consumers switch financial institutions? The data from 1 million+ consumer reviews points towards 5 reasons that might surprise you. Click HereWith Engaging Graphics for Windows, Walls, Floors, and More. Click HereAsk yourself these critical questions and discover your own bank or credit union’s “Customer iQueue”. Click HereA recent study shows it pays off to emphasize your financial planning and investment services. Check out this infographic to learn more. Click Here© 2019 THE FINANCIAL BRAND