Ford (F) took its time. But for its first electric vehicle, the 116-year old automaker did something a little controversial.The Mustang Mach-E is an all-new, fully-electric crossover that Ford says is part of the “Mustang family.” That means it has some styling cues from the famous pony car, but that’s about it. It’s not a coupe, convertible, or special edition Mustang like the Bullitt edition.The Mach-E will come in a few flavors when it arrives in showrooms in late 2020. There will be available standard and extended-range battery options with either rear-wheel drive or all-wheel drive, using permanent magnet motors - the same kind used in the Chevy (GM) Volt and Tesla (TSLA) vehicles.For the Mach-E with the extended-range battery and rear-wheel drive targeted, Ford is targeting an EPA-estimated range of at least 300 miles. In extended-range all-wheel-drive configurations, the Mach-E will pump out 332 horsepower and 417 lb.-ft. of torque.But that’s not all. Ford will also offer two special performance versions - a GT version (see what Ford did there) and a GT Performance Edition. Both GT models will boost output to 459 horsepower and a very healthy 612 lb.-ft. of torque. Ford says the GT Performance Edition will likely have a 0-60 mph time in the mid-3-second range, while the standard GT will do the sprint in under 4 seconds.Pricing for the Mustang Mach-E in the ‘select’ base trim (rear-wheel drive, standard range) starts at $43,895, with the GT starting at $60,500. There’s also a First Edition as well as a California RT.1 edition that go for $59,900 and $52,400 respectively. You check the Mustang Mach-E website for all the configurations and pricing.Now for comparison sake, the upcoming Tesla Model Y rear-wheel drive long range version will cost around $48,000, with an estimated range of 300 miles and a 0 to 60 mph time of 5.5 seconds. A Model Y long-range with all-wheel drive will set you back $52,000 and have a range of 280 miles (with a 0 to 60 mph time of 4.8 seconds), and the performance version Model Y will cost $61,000 and have a range as well of 280 miles, but a 3.5 second 0-60 mph time. Note these are all estimates from Tesla.For Ford, its first stab at an all-electric vehicle being a Mustang means the company wants to focus on performance first - not necessarily efficiency. “The Mustang Mach-E wholeheartedly rejects the notion that electric vehicles are only good at reducing gas consumption,” said Hau Thai-Tang, Ford’s chief product development and purchasing officer. “People want a car that’s thrilling to drive, that looks gorgeous and that can easily adapt to their lifestyle – and the Mustang Mach-E delivers all of this in unmatched style.”Inside the cabin the main attraction will be a Tesla Model S-like 15.5-inch touch screen that Ford says will be simpler and “ditches complicated menus,” making it easier to access features “with touch, swipe and pinch controls.” The next-generation of Ford’s SYNC infotainment system makes its debut in the Mach-E as well.Prospective customers can put down a $500 deposit now to reserve their Mustang Mach-E, with deliveries starting in spring 2021.——Pras Subramanian is a reporter for Yahoo Finance. You can follow him on Twitter and on Instagram.Related stories:Porsche Taycan revealed: The monster stats behind Porsche’s big electric bet‘2 Dudes’ road test: the all-electric Jaguar I-PACEThe Tesla Model 3 will be a great car—somedayRoad Test: 2018 Porsche Panamera Turbo S E-Hybrid Sport Turismo