LOS ANGELES, California — As if calling an SUV — a battery-powered one, at that — a “Mustang” doesn’t already foist an uphill challenge on this new model, Ford’s 2021 Mach-E also has to strip sales away from Tesla, prove to Ford shareholders that there really is a “mass” market for mid-priced electric vehicles and, at the same time, prepare the ultimate of Ford loyalists — F-150 owners – for the inevitable electrification of their pickup trucks.That’s a pretty steep ask. Here’s how Ford plans to do it, plus some background info you just need to know.Rumour ’round the L.A. Auto Show has it Ford originally tried to build the Mach-E on an existing – that should be read “gas-powered” – platform, but the engineers couldn’t hit their range and performance targets.CHECK OUT ALL OUR LATEST AUTO SHOW COVERAGESo they made a deal with the devil, asking Ford’s accountants for more money so they could build a bespoke battery-powered chassis. The tithe exacted by the bean-counters? That they name it “Mustang” so they could build on the name recognition of probably the most famous Ford of all time. Which explains why—This is no halo vehicle or vanity project. Ford is looking to move some (battery-powered) iron, here. I count, for instance, no less than nine distinct trim levels across the Mach-E’s five models — Select (available early 2021), Premium (late 2020), First Edition (also late 2020), California Route 1 (early 2021) and GT Performance (spring 2021).That’s a huge number of trims from a company that prides itself on efficient manufacturing. The only way to amortize the cost of that proliferation is to sell boatloads of product, which also explains why—Base (Select trim) Mach-Es will start at $50,495 and, unlike Elon’s $35,000 Model 3, you’ll actually be able to buy them at that price from launch. Even the all-singing, all-dancing GT Performance Edition will slip in under $83,000 (yes, these prices are all Canadian).Again, Ford plans to move a bunch of Mach-Es in preparation for what will surely be its real heavy-hitter in the EV world, an electrified F-150. The first two models available – the Premium and California Route 1 – will start at $59,495 (for the standard-range version of the Premium) and $64,495 (for the Route 1 and its extended-range battery). In between—Ford Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-EFord Mustang Mach-ERunning through the Mach-E’s order guide is like feasting at the ultimate of electric vehicle buffets. Want a rear-wheel-drive BEV with a big battery that maximizes range? Mach-E’s got the California Route 1. Want an all-wheel-drive with a cheaper battery but better performance? Well, Ford has a Premium SR AWD with your name on it that can scoot to 100 clicks in about five-and-a-half-seconds.Wading through the vast array of options and combinations will make your head spin, so I’ll attempt to simplify it all for you. There are basically two battery options: a standard-range (SR) 75.7-kilowatt-hour affair; and an extended-range (ER) 98.8-kWh monster.Combine the extended-range unit with a modestly-powered (282-hp) rear-wheel drivetrain and you have the 475-kilometre California Route 1. Package the same 98.8-kilowatt-hour ER hardware with 459 all-wheel-driving horses and you have the GT Performance with its three-and-a-half-second blitz to 100 kilometres an hour (though range is reduced to 375 km).The Premium, which looks to be the backbone of Ford’s sales effort, can be had with any combination of long- and short-range battery and rear-wheel- or all-wheel-drive powertrains you want, in 255-, 282- and – yet another iteration – 332-horsepower guises.Dizzy yet? Like the California, the First Edition (which will exact something of a premium – $71,995 – for its limited quantities) is only available with the extended-range battery, but drives all four wheels with less urge (332 hp) than the GT Performance, resulting in yet another range rating, this time 425 kilometres.There’s a Mach-E for every purse and purpose, and the only way Ford can do this at these (comparatively) aggressive prices is to sell dealerships full of them. 2021 is going to be very interesting for Ford’s bottom line.The big question, then, is where Ford will find all the zero-emissions enthusiasts to fill Mach-E seats. Its first course of action – duh, look at the name, Dave – is obviously loyalists. Now whether this means past patrons of Ford in general or of Mustang in particular is anybody’s guess.Certainly branding a sport utility vehicle “Mustang” when it shares nothing but a grille shape and some taillights with your iconic sports car is a brave – that should be read “risky” – move. I do think, however, that while Mustang cognoscenti may prove outraged, current Ford owners looking for their first EV will appreciate the tie-up.There’s no doubt Ford also has Tesla firmly in its sights. The general specs look strikingly similar, though Ford would seem to have Lord Elon surrounded with its plethora of models and trims. And, although there is some Ford traditionalism to the Mach-E’s cabin – the steering wheel, rotary gear selector and various switches and controllers – that gargantuan touchscreen plunked vertically in the centre of the dashboard is pure Tesla.“Come to me,” the Mach-E seems to be saying, “and I will make you feel instantly comfortable.” Of further note, even though it does not yet sport Autopilot-like hands-free driving, Ford says — again, emulating Tesla — an over-the-air update may be available shortly after the electrified Mustang hits the road.By partnering with Greenlots and Electrify America, Ford says Mach-E owners will have access to more than 12,000 charging stations and 35,000 plugs in Canada and the United States. Using Electrify America’s 150-kilowatt DC chargers, Ford says its battery-powered crossover can add about 75 kilometres of range with just 10 minutes of charging, and can replenish a near-dead — 10-per-cent life — battery to 80 per cent in just 45 minutes. Ford is also offering two years of complimentary access to the FordPass network.Ford also expects most electrified Mustangs will be ordered with its 48-amp Ford Connected Charge Station, which recharges the Mach-E’s batteries at the rate of 50 kilometres an hour. Every Mach-E will also come with a mobile charger that can access higher-power 240-volt home networks. And like similar systems in other EVs, Ford’s My Trip app will help you plan your route by monitoring the battery’s state of charge and identifying FordPass charging points along the route.The most important question, of course, is whether Ford badging can compete with the Teslas and Porsches of the luxury EV segment. I suspect that’s what prompted the bean-counters’ insistence on calling it a “Mustang.”The ‘Stang has long been Ford’s best foot forward, and when you’re going against the hegemony that is Tesla and electric vehicles, it helps to have all hands on deck. Whether that’s enough to sell boatloads of battery-powered sport utes posing as Mustangs — only time will tell.365 Bloor St East, Toronto, ON, M4W3L4, www.postmedia.com© 2019 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.Unauthorized distrbution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.