Watch CBSN Live
                  By Craig Cole
              
November 17, 2019 / 11:13 PM
      / CNET
    A new horse is joining the stable. Ford's all-electric, Mustang-inspired SUV is finally here, revealed Sunday evening ahead of the 2019 LA Auto Show. Meet the Mustang Mach-E. With this battery-powered utility vehicle, Ford is aiming to deliver a product that hits the EV market's  sweet spot. Stylish, powerful and spacious inside, the Mustang Mach-E  will also offer loads of technology, have an impressive driving range  and deliver all that at a price that doesn't require robbing a bank to  afford. But this wasn't always the plan. Several years ago, the  project started as "another compliance play," explained Jason Castriota,  brand director for BEVs at Ford, speaking at a backgrounder event in  Michigan earlier this month. "But we knew this wasn't compelling," he  added, especially after watching other automakers struggle. 

                        More in Behind The Wheel
                      
The uninspired electric cars  offered by rival companies have been as unprofitable as they are  dorky-looking. Ford's original plan to produce another forgettable,  mass-market, battery-powered hatchback was quickly shelved, though  perhaps not soon enough.Castriota said Jim Farley, Ford's president of new businesses,  technology and strategy, saw what they were doing and rebooted the  entire program. Changing horses midstream -- yes, pun intended -- they  decided to tap into the equity of Ford's most iconic products. "We need a  new hero," Castriota said. And to cut through all the noise and clutter  out there, "It's got to be Mustang." With more than 10 million sold over the last 55 years, there isn't a more iconic Ford around, save, perhaps, for the F-150, which will soon get its own electric variant."The  day we decided this would be Mustang-inspired … everybody lit up,"  Darren Palmer, Ford's global head of product development for BEVs, said  while presenting at the backgrounder. To foal this filly, engineers had  to create an all-new, dedicated electric-vehicle architecture. The  Mach-E also had to be wrapped in a design that does justice to the  Mustang's heritage. To deliver, its nose was lifted, and the A-pillars  were pushed rearward. Designers moved the wheels toward each end of the  body, added strong rear haunches and fitted it with iconic three-chamber  taillights, all in a bid to create a stylish, emotional product, one  that just happens to be electric. But make sure you know this is  an SUV of the future, it's also got plenty of technology, not just  retro-inspired styling. One of the first things people will notice, or  perhaps not notice, is that the Mach-E lacks traditional door handles.  Instead, you use electrically operated push buttons to get in. Special  activators pop the doors open about 4 inches and then you can grab a  handle hidden along the lip. All this supposedly improves aerodynamics  and gives the vehicle a futuristic look, but it seems like a lot of cost  and complexity for potentially very little benefit.  Another innovative feature is the Mach-E's front trunk, or frunk if  you prefer. At just shy of 5 cubic feet, this space is designed to hold  at least one piece of roller luggage but, cleverly, it's not carpeted  and there's a drain plug at the bottom. This means you can load it with  messy stuff and just hose it out afterwards. Palmer said, "We're tooling  up a foam insert that will hold ice for four days," making the Mach-E a  perfect vehicle for tailgating. At the rear, this five-door  Mustang's cargo hold provides 29 cubic feet of luggage space. Fold the  rear backrests down and that figure swells to shy of 60. This means the  Mach-E offers more interior storage volume than either the Jaguar I-Pace or Audi E-Tron, two major rivals (albeit carrying premium badges and pricing to match).This machine is built on a brand-new battery-electric vehicle architecture, part of an $11.5 billion investment Ford is making in electrification.  Thanks to its low center of gravity and near-perfect 50/50 weight  distribution, the Mach-E should be the best-handling SUV Ford has ever  offered.As for dimensions, its wheelbase measures 117 inches, which is just about 2 inches shorter than an Explorer's. The Mach-E's overall length clocks in at 186 inches, meaning it's more than a foot shorter than its three-row sibling.Giving customers some welcome choice, a range of different trim  levels will be available including Select, Premium, First Edition and  California Route 1, as well as GT and a GT Performance Edition. Two  different batteries will be offered in this vehicle. Both of the  lithium-ion variety, the standard-range unit clocks in at 75.7 kWh and  contains 288 cells. The extended-range battery has 376 cells and weighs  in at 98.8 kWh. Both have a warranty of 8 years or 100,000 miles.Naturally,  the Mach-E's driving range will vary based on myriad factors, but Ford  says a model equipped with the extended-range battery and rear-wheel  drive should provide an EPA-estimated range of at least 300 miles.As  for powertrains, the base Mach-E features a single, rear-mounted  electric motor powering just the aft wheels. Four-corner traction is  also available, which adds a small motor to the front axle. GT variants  feature a large electric motor at each end for maximum punch.Models  fitted with the extended-range battery pack and all-wheel drive should  pack 332 horsepower and 417 pound-feet of torque. GT and GT Performance  Edition models are even more muscular. They will be graced with an  estimated 459 ponies and a whopping 612 lb-ft of twist. They'll also  feature MagnaRide suspension and a driving range of around 235 miles.Standard GT models should be about as quick as a Porsche Macan Turbo. GT Performance Edition variants will be even fleeter, offering acceleration comparable to a 911 GTS,  blitzing to 60 miles per hour in the mid-3-second range. The  all-wheel-drive, non-GT variant with the big battery is expected to run  about like a Porsche Macan Turbo, hitting mile-a-minute velocity in around 4.3 seconds.Further  setting the Mach-E GT apart from lesser models is a range of equipment.  It will get a unique grille design, forged wheels spanning 20 inches,  special sill trim and a different suspension tuning with MagneRide  dampers, plus a host of small changes inside. Some of the  pleasure you get from driving a high-performance car is the noise it  makes. A husky exhaust sound or open-element air filter can heighten the  experience. Ensuring the Mach-E delivers an emotional drive, Palmer  said there will be no "fake sounds." What it'll do instead is boost the  noises this SUV's powertrain already makes, producing something that's  "complex, multitimbral" but also authentic. The last thing they wanted  to do is pump fake V8 exhaust sounds out of it. If you were worried  about that, your concerns are, thankfully, unfounded.The one thing you will  not miss inside the Mach-E is its infotainment screen. This portrait  display measures a massive 15.5 inches and has a special, physical  control knob. Originally, Ford was going to offer a screen that was a  little over 12 inches in size, but the company determined that wasn't  enough. This touch-enabled panel is home to a brand-new and  still-unnamed infotainment system. When asked, company spokespeople  declined to name it, though it could be a member of the Sync 4 family,  Ford's next-generation multimedia system. Designed to be as intuitive  as possible, this setup nonetheless has a relatively simple overall  layout. When paired with a smartphone, it can adapt to drivers as it  learns about their habits and routines. For instance, if you call your  spouse after work each day, it can have your spouse's contact card  queued up and ready to go. If you always use turn-by-turn directions to  navigate home, that may automatically pop up, too. Your four most  frequently used things are displayed on the lower portion of the screen  for immediate access. The  Mach-E's dashboard features the same double-brow design that's been  used in Mustangs since, well, forever. It's not as pronounced as in the  standard model, but it is fitted with a soundbar that was inspired by Bluetooth speakers. Moving  rearward, the Mach-E is surprisingly spacious inside. Palmer is 6 feet,  6 inches tall and he has no trouble sitting in the back seat. He even  has a couple inches of headroom left.  It's  unclear how the Mustang faithful will respond to this EV, but maybe  once they see the design, features and price, they won't totally blow a  gasket. The base Select trim level will start at $44,995, including a  $1,100 destination fee but excluding the $7500 federal tax credit. Ford  said it expects that discount to remain in full effect for about a year  after the Mach-E goes on sale; then it gradually steps down to zero. The  Select comes standard with rear-wheel drive, 255 horsepower, and a  range of around 230 miles. All-wheel drive costs $2,700 extra and  reduces range to 210 miles.The next step up is the $51,700  Premium trim, which will be the first to go on sale. It mirror's the  Select's battery and drivetrain options, with RWD standard and AWD also  costing $2,700. But the Premium is also available with the Extended  Range Battery for $5,000, which boosts power to 282 horses when RWD (or  332 with AWD) and range to 300 miles (or 270 with AWD). The $53,500  California Route 1 Edition uses the rear-drive extended-range setup,  also delivering 300 miles of range.Finally, there is the  limited-run First Edition model, which gets unique colors and options  and starts at $61,000, and the performance-oriented GT, which has its  own styling cues and starts at $61,600. The First Edition uses the same  extended-range AWD setup as the Premium trim, but to go along with its  name, the GT uses a dual-motor AWD setup that makes 459 horsepower and  rockets the Mach-E to 60 mph in around 4 seconds, according to Ford. The  downsides? Range for the GT will only be around 250 miles, and it won't  be on sale until spring 2021. There also will be a GT Performance  Edition that will surely be more expensive -- that's the one that  achieves Ford's mid-3-second 0-60 claims.This machine should offer more range and a significantly lower price than other EVs like the Jaguar I-Pace or Audi E-Tron, though Tesla's Model 3 and Model Y are much closer competitors. You  can reserve one of these all-electric Mustangs starting today; just  plunk down a refundable $500 deposit. The car will launch at some point  next year, with the GT version following in 2021. That's a ridiculously  wide window of time, and a lot can change between then and now, but it  looks like Ford's hard work is going to pay off. Palmer and other  members of the Mach-E teams are palpably excited. "This is the future  of this company," he said. "We're all in on electrics," and the Mach-E  is just the first one. This article first appeared on CNET.com
First published on November 17, 2019 / 11:13 PM

© 2019 CBS Interactive Inc.. All Rights Reserved. 

        Protesters tried to break through police line that's been trapping hundreds in Hong Kong Polytechnic University
      
        The Russians moved in just a day after U.S. forces left, leaving behind barracks, beds, abandoned medical supplies and an unusable gym
      
        Eighty-seven-year-old Michel Pont isn't your typical collector — he has 110 jets in all
      
        Since records began in 1872, that level had never been reached even twice in one year, let alone three times in one week
      
        As riot police moved in from all sides, some protesters retreated inside Hong Kong Polytechnic University while others set fires on bridges leading to it
      
        Deal to sell a controlling share in cosmetics brands values the entrepreneur's beauty business at $1.2 billion
      
        This was the sixth racially-charged incident in 10 days, according to CBS New York
      
        FBI spokeswoman says Muncie Mayor Dennis Tyler was arrested at his home Monday morning and was in custody
      
        The statement said Costello's teammates were "naturally devastated" by the news
      
        Eight current or former Trump officials will testify in the impeachment inquiry against President Trump
      
        Eight current or former Trump officials will testify in the impeachment inquiry against President Trump
      
        House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and her caucus appear ready to press forward with the Trump impeachment probe
      
        "We think we can maintain our majority and grow it and help elect the Senate and a Democratic president of the United States," Pelosi said
      
        Emails obtained by CBS News show Trump's nominee for ambassador to the Bahamas was asked by the RNC to donate half a million dollars as his confirmation in the Senate hung in the balance
      
        The House Intelligence Committee will hear testimony from eight witnesses, including several at the center of the impeachment probe
      
        Mo Rocca pulled out all the stops to honor the Revolutionary author whose pamphlets lit the fuse for American independence but whose passing in 1809 drew indifference and even scorn. To hear the "Mobituaries" podcast on the life and death of Thomas Paine, go to art19.com.
      
        John le Carré is 88 now, and 25 novels, 10 films and 6 TV adaptations later, he has new villains: The people trying to take Britain out of the European Union. The author talks with Mark Phillips about his latest novel of intrigue, "Agent Running in the Field," which examines how the British public is being "bamboozled by people with private interests" in the push for Brexit.
      
        His new novel, "Angel Running in the Field," examines how the British public, he says, is being "bamboozled by people with private interests," and European allies are being turned into enemies
      
        One of the most respected and successful chroniclers of avian life has produced bestselling field guides for birdwatchers, covering more than 800 species
      
        The painstaking work of art restorers, who remove decades of dulling dirt and dust or repair damaged works, is meant to help art stand the test of time by keeping time at bay
      
        All-electric SUV brings style, speed and up to 300 miles of driving range to a normally sleepy segment
      
        Shoppers with phone payment apps can "bump" those signature red kettles to make cashless contributions
      
        Ads on issues like climate change, abortion and gun control will be permitted after restrictions sparked backlash
      
        A Spanish tourist died at the same spot last summer
      
        Researchers found that blacks and Latinos face higher mortgage costs — and tech is no panacea
      
        Scientists ascend into the canopies at Sequoia National Park to study how the giant trees adapt to drought
      
        At least 60% of Superfund sites are vulnerable to climate change, a government watchdog says, adding that Trump administration policies are hindering protections
      
        Since records began in 1872, that level had never been reached even twice in one year, let alone three times in one week
      
        Colorful shooting stars will streak across the night sky during one of the most famous annual meteor displays
      
        NASA argues concerns raised in new inspector general's report are "worst-case" and ignore mitigation efforts
      
        The president made an unannounced stop at Walter Reed Army Hospital to have portions of his physical done before his 2020 schedule fills up
      
        Regulator found "rodent feces" throughout one manufacturing facility that supplies cosmetics to discount retailer
      
        Tech giant alludes to rash of deaths and lung injuries in moving to delete nearly 200 apps from its online store
      
        "I got punched in the face," said one emergency room nurse, while others worry for their safety
      
        But 34.2 million adults still smoke and use other tobacco products
      
        Deal to sell a controlling share in cosmetics brands values the entrepreneur's beauty business at $1.2 billion
      
        The double-cup habit, started in New England, may be "hard" for some to break, a spokeswoman said
      
        All-electric SUV brings style, speed and up to 300 miles of driving range to a normally sleepy segment
      
        African-American borrowers are particularly at risk as student debt around the U.S. continues to soar
      
        The price increase comes just after its owner, Disney, debuted its own new streaming platform
      
        Trial of Colorado man accused of murder in the disappearance of his fiancée, Kelsey Berreth, is expected to go to the jury Monday
      
        Police say people at a backyard gathering were hit by a suspect or suspects who sneaked in and opened fire
      
        Maria Farmer, who is suing the Epstein estate, says she saw cameras being monitored throughout his Manhattan home
      
        Rodney Reed's mother, Sandra Reed, speaks out after her son was granted an indefinite stay of execution days before he was scheduled to die. Reed has been in prison for more than 20 years for a 1996 rape and murder he says he didn't commit. KEYE-TV's Tristan Balagtas reports.
      
        Thousands attended a candlelight vigil for the students killed in the Santa Clarita, California high school shooting; authorities were still trying to determine the gunman's motive
      
        Colorful shooting stars will streak across the night sky during one of the most famous annual meteor displays
      
        NASA argues concerns raised in new inspector general's report are "worst-case" and ignore mitigation efforts
      
        Four spacewalks will be needed to repair the $2 billion Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer
      
        Astronomers spotted the star just 29,000 light-years away from Earth — "practically next door by astronomical standards"
      
        The test will help clear the way for an in-flight abort test as early as next month
      
        "We the People" is a collection of watercolor paintings depicting the diversity of U.S. service members from every state of the union
      
        Looking back at the wall that once divided Germany during the Cold War, and its collapse in November 1989
      
        Extreme winds fanned the flames as fires threatened large portions of the Golden State
      
        Noah, Liam, Carter – how many of these popular male baby names do you know?
      
        Cartoonist Hugh Murphy's series of books details the tribulations modern life poses for a Tyrannosaurus Rex with very short arms
      
        Dating apps offer seemingly endless potential matches at your fingertips, turning an intimate experience into something that feels more like a video game. But because users hide behind virtual profiles, it's easy to ghost, harass, and view others as non-human — and now that bots are populating these platforms, some actually are. As the industry continues to grow, some experts question whether dating app companies are really interested in helping people find love, or if they have an incentive to keep people in an endless cycle of searching and matching without any real connection.
      
        Pelosi says despite a contentious impeachment probe of the president, Democrats will surge in the 2020 election cycle
      
        In our Eye on Earth series, we are walking among giants: ancient trees. The huge sequoia groves of California draw millions of tourists a year, but these forests are more than photo opportunities. They are longtime warriors in the battle against climate change. Jonathan Vigliotti reports.
      
        Actor Tobias Menzies is taking over the role of Prince Philip in the hit Netflix show, “The Crown.” Menzies joins "CBS This Morning" to discuss Season 3 of the series, and the issue of gender pay gap in Hollywood.
      
        Research shows black girls are much more likely to be punished in school than white girls. As part of our School Matters series, we spoke to a 13-year-old who says she was dragged outside and left in the cold by her teacher in the second grade.
      Copyright © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes.Market data provided by ICE Data Services. ICE Limitations. Powered and implemented by FactSet. News provided by The Associated Press. Legal Statement.