Published: Nov 18, 2019 7:41 a.m. ETByShares of Tesla Inc. 

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    TSLA, -0.51%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                         tacked on 0.3% in premarket trading Monday, after Deutsche Bank analyst Emmanuel Rosner raised his price target by 12% ahead of the unveiling of its new electric pickup truck later this week, but the target remained well below current levels. Rosner reiterated his hold rating but lifted the target to $290, which is 17.7% below Friday's closing price of $352.17. Tesla's "Cybertruck" is expected to be unveiled on Nov. 21 in Los Angeles. "[A]ssuming most performance specifications are in line with those teased over time by [Chief Executive] Elon Musk, we expect focus to be on how well the actual design resonates with pickup buyers," Rosner wrote in a note to clients. "Musk has indicated it 'looks like an armored personnel carrier from the future,' from the set of Blade Runner, and is 'unrecognizable from the trucks from the past 20-40 years,' which we think could carry the risk of not attracting traditional pickup buyers, leaving it a lower-volume niche product." The stock has soared 60.1% over the past three months, while the S&P 500 

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    SPX, -0.19%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                         has gained 8.0%.Copyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
            By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service,
            Privacy Policy, and
            Cookie Policy.
          
          Intraday Data provided by FACTSET and subject to terms of use.
          Historical and current end-of-day data provided by FACTSET.
          All quotes are in local exchange time.
          Real-time last sale data for U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only.
          Intraday data delayed at least 15 minutes or per exchange requirements.
        