
Published on November 17th, 2019 |
                by Cynthia ShahanNovember 17th, 2019 by Cynthia Shahan The other day I noticed my torque was at prime force due to the battery being fully charged — on my 2015 BMW i3. Imagine how this higher state of charge (SoC) increases the feeling of Ludicrous Mode as it jets a Tesla Model S P100D forward like a rocket.In another case of such a Tesla showing off its power and thrilling its driver, below we have a race between a P100D and a Mercedes AMG GT 63 with a twin-turbocharged V8 engine, two similarly priced 4 door cars.The articulate racing-inspired YouTube channel Lovecars set up the race. According to Lovecars, the new AMG GT 63 from the oldest car manufacturer in the world challenges the current king of the racetrack, the Model S P100D. The unfolding race is about contrast as well as racing. It is about generational changes.Tiff Needell amuses himself, and us, as he inspects the vitals on the Tesla screen. His friend in the Mercedes says, “Yeah, but can it do this?” The vroom vroom of the V8 engine follows. (Many would consider that a bug rather than a feature.)1, 2, 3, and the Mercedes driver smiles in amazement as Tiff and Tesla take a certain lead. “It’s an absolute rocket!” The fun of this video is the back and forth. Tiff says, “I left you 100 yards behind in a flash. Were you not trying at all?”Tiff switches cars and gets behind the wheel of the Mercedes, because as he says, it must be a driver error — how could Tesla be so far ahead. “Jumping from that Tesla to Mercedes is minimalistic to maximalistic,” he notes — “if that’s a word.”The drivers eventually make 3 runs of races.Sources: Tesla Inc. / Mercedes AMG via X AutoConsider the force and performance of the Tesla, an all-electric car that only arrived on the scene in 2012 from the newest car manufacturer on the planet. Yes, the Tesla Model S P100D deserves the crown. How the times have changed.I got hooked on Lovecars and Tiff Needell after the races and wanted a bit more. I found another one worth watching. Of course, this sticks with the all-electric Tesla. Enjoy.Tip of the hat to X Auto. 
 
Follow CleanTechnica on Google News.
It will make you happy & help you live in peace for the rest of your life.Tags: Drag Racing, electric drag racing, Mercedes-AMG, Tesla, Tesla Model S, Tesla Model S Drag Racing, Tesla Model S P100D, Tesla Model S P100DL, Tesla RacingCynthia Shahan Cynthia Shahan started writing by doing research as a social cultural and sometimes medical anthropology thinker. She studied and practiced both Waldorf education, and Montessori education. Eventually becoming an organic farmer, licensed AP, and mother of four unconditionally loving spirits, teachers, and environmentally conscious beings born with spiritual insights and ethics beyond this world. (She was able to advance more in this way led by her children.)Advertise with CleanTechnica to get your company in front of millions of monthly readers.

The content produced by this site is for entertainment purposes only. Opinions and comments published on this site may not be sanctioned by, and do not necessarily represent the views of Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc., its owners, sponsors, affiliates, or subsidiaries.CleanTechnica is the #1 cleantech-focused news & analysis website in the US & the world, focusing primarily on electric cars, solar energy, wind energy, & energy storage.© 2019   Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc.