UPDATE: Amid concern about what would happen to the accounts of deceased users, Twitter said Wednesday that it would pause plans for an account purge until it came up with a way to preserve the tweets of those who've passed.Do you have an old Twitter account you haven't accessed in awhile? Use it or lose it.Twitter is warning inactive users to log back into their accounts or risk losing access next month. On the plus side, the company is reclaiming the Twitter handles so active users can grab them. But the main goal with the coming purge is to crack down on misinformation ahead of the 2020 presidential election."As part of our commitment to serve the public conversation, we're working to clean up inactive accounts to present more accurate, credible information people can trust across Twitter," the company said in a statement. "Part of this effort is encouraging people to actively log-in and use Twitter when they register an account, as stated in our Inactive Accounts Policy."That policy, which has been around since at least 2018, says Twitter can permanently remove an account that hasn't been logged in for more than six months. But in this case, the company has created a clear deadline; affected users will have until Dec. 11 to sign in, according to BBC reporter Dave Lee, who first tweeted about the news.My bots which tweet regularly haven't received any emails. Nearly all my inactive accounts have received a notification. pic.twitter.com/dHINSPuPGtSo if you've stepped away from Twitter, but still want to keep your username, it's time to fire up the old account. Inactive users simply need to log back in—not necessarily tweet—to remain active."We have begun proactive outreach to many accounts who have not logged into Twitter in over six months to inform them that their accounts may be permanently removed due to prolonged inactivity," the company added.When Twitter will allow active users to grab newly reclaimed usernames wasn't mentioned. A company spokesperson merely said affected accounts would be removed over the course of many months and not all at once.For user accounts registered to people who have recently passed away, Twitter advises family members to contact the company. However, the current policy will only let the family member deactivate the account, not take it over. "We do not currently have a way to memorialize someone's Twitter account once they have passed on, but the team is thinking about ways to do this," the company's spokesperson said.In the meantime, the Internet Archive is taking requests to archive select user accounts on Twitter that belonged to the deceased and are now in danger of getting deleted.Google Detects Steady Stream of Phishing Attacks From CyberspiesFacebook's Oculus Buys Maker of Hit VR Game 'Beat Saber'
Michael has been a PCMag reporter since October 2017. He previously covered tech news in China from 2010 to 2015, before moving to San Francisco to write about cybersecurity. He covers a variety of tech news topics, including consumer devices, digital privacy issues, computer hacking, artificial intelligence, online communities and gaming.
Send... See Full Bio
Music Site Genius Sues Google Over Alleged Lyric CopyingGoogle Co-Founders Step Down, Sundar Pichai to Lead AlphabetSmith & Wesson's Website Hacked to Steal Credit Card DetailsGoogle Photos Will Soon Get a 'Private Conversation' FeatureAndroid Malware Abuses App Permissions to Hijack PhonesSubscribe to What's New NowThis newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time.
© 1996-2019

Ziff Davis, LLC. PCMag Digital Group

PC Magazine and PC PCMag.com are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.We strongly encourage you to read our updated PRIVACY POLICY and COOKIE POLICY.