
T. Greg Doucette is the North Carolina litigator who sleuthed out the incredible, bizarre details of the decision of the University of North Carolina's Republican-appointed governors to hand a group of white nationalists $2.5m to build a Confederacy museum.

Doucette visited the Orange County Courthouse and scanned 123 pages' worth of documents related to the "lawsuit" that resulted in the UNC payout, including a "victory statement" by Kevin Stone, who styles himself "commander" of the white nationalist group Sons of Confederate Veterans, who received the $2.5m windfall from the university.

But that victory statement is not available now, because Stone and the Sons of Confederate Veterans sent a DMCA notice to Dropbox, demanding that the document be removed on the grounds that it was a copyright violation, despite the document being part of a public court record.

Doucette sounds like he's ready to fight.

(I am a visiting professor of practice at UNC's School of Information and Library Science)

For years, rogue archivist Carl Malamud (previously) has been scanning and posting proprietary elements of the law, such as standard annotations or building and safety codes developed by outside parties and then incorporated into legislation, on the theory that if you are expected to follow the law, you must be able to read, write and […]		Last week, just before everything shut down for Thanksgiving, the Republican-appointed Board of Governors of the University of North Carolina handed $2.5m to the white nationalist Sons of Confederate Veterans, claiming it would settle a lawsuit over the removal of a Confederate "Silent Sam" statue from campus -- but as local litigator T Greg Doucette […]		The pharma industry spends $2 on marketing for every $1 it spends on R&D: Shahram Ahari was a rep for Eli Lilly, so he knows how the money was spent: in a tell-all op-ed in the Washington Post, Ahari describes how he lavished spending over doctors, everything from dinners at "so many fancy Manhattan restaurants […]		
In the course of any day, we encounter many different audio environments. If you are wearing earbuds, the ambient noise level can affect your listening experience. The HUB wireless earbuds adapt to different surroundings using smart noise-cancellation technology. They can either block out distractions or enhance conversations. They are normally priced at $250, but you […]It’s no secret that web developers are in increasingly high-demand throughout multiple industries, but you don’t need to invest an exorbitant amount of time or money in a traditional tech education in order to get the skills you need to join this lucrative field. The Ultimate 2020 Web Designer & Developer Bundle will teach you […]For many of us, smoking provides relief from the stress of everyday life and a good excuse to take a break. At home, getting a quick fix is pretty easy. But when your schedule involves dashing from one place to the next, you may end up missing out. The Allin1E Smoking Tool is designed for […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support