Selena Gomez has one more tattoo than she used to. The 27-year-old singer took to Instagram on Sunday to share some behind-the-scenes photos from the 2019 American Music Awards after opening the show with a performance of her two newest songs, "Lose You to Love Me" and "Look at Her Now."Her post contained four Polaroid pictures that showed off details of the outfit she wore during the part of her performance dedicated to "Look at Her Now."In one of the images, Gomez can be seen lifting her skirt and pointing to a new tattoo on her thigh. The tattoo appeared to be of a set of hands clasped together with a rosary wrapped around them. "AMAs day.. more to come.." Gomez captioned the post. A post shared by  Selena Gomez (@selenagomez) on Nov 24, 2019 at 5:46pm PSTNov 24, 2019 at 5:46pm PST
Her tattoo was tagged with the New York-based tattoo shop, Bang Bang Tattoo. The shop also shared the post, along with another set of Polaroids that showed Gomez getting inked."For the wonderful @selenagomez thank you for the trust #housecall," the post was captioned. A post shared by  Bang Bang Tattoo (@bangbangnyc) on Nov 25, 2019 at 6:11am PSTNov 25, 2019 at 6:11am PST
A fan account shared the news, and reported that this marks Gomez's 14th tattoo to date. The former "Wizards of Waverly Place" star recently got a matching tattoo with Julia Michaels. Earlier this month, the two singers each got an arrow on their hands, that, when clasped together, point toward each other. During the AMAs, Gomez performed her two newest singles off her forthcoming second studio album, scheduled to be released on January 10, 2020."This album is my diary from the past few years and I can't wait for you to hear it," Gomez wrote about the project on Instagram, promising that the she'll drop the album's title, cover art, and track list "soon."After she released "Lose You to Love Me" and "Look at Her Now," fans immediately began speculating that the tracks were about the aftermath of her relationship with Justin Bieber, which ended for good in March 2018. Read more:Here are all the 2019 American Music Awards winnersHere are 30 of the most iconic celebrity tattoosJustin Bieber and Selena Gomez's songs were made into a viral mashup and it's giving fans closureSelena Gomez just released a new music video after over a year, and it was shot on the new iPhone 11 ProLike what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
