CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againAnd other great kitchen finds that are still on sale.Although Cyber Monday and Black Friday may be behind us, Sur la Table is still running plenty of deals online. If you've been coveting a Nespresso coffee maker or you're simply in search of the perfect serving tray for Christmas, look no further than Sur La Table's deals. We've rounded up a list of everything we're adding to our carts, and be sure to check out the website for more great sales.Read more: The best Cyber Monday deals on Le Creuset, Staub and more enameled cast iron (updated)This is definitely going to be your new favorite baker for scalloped potatoes, casseroles and desserts. This Staub ceramic baker in brilliant turquoise with a weathered finish is marked down under $20. 
    
    
    
    Give your stove a little color with one of these Le Creuset pans, which come in a bright orange, yellow and deep blue. This set actually boasts two pans in one: The lid double as a pan, so you get two for the price of one. 
    
    
    
    You know the brand, you love the brand and now's the time own the brand with this gorgeous Le Creuset cast iron skillet at a whopping $70 off. That turquoise one has us seeing stars.
    
    
    
    Your slicing, dicing, chopping and mincing has never looked more beautiful with these colorful and modern knife blocks (with matching handles!). In fact, your outdated kitchen appliances and tools may be jealous when this is work-of-art is sitting front and center. Sorry, not sorry?
    
    
    
    Ready for those cold weather days and warm stew nights? Meet the All-Clad Dutch oven (usually $220), which is ideal for cooking those dishes that simply make you warm inside: roasted meats, slow-cooked chilis, stewed vegetables and casseroles. The domed lid locks in moisture and keeps things hot, so you don't have to worry about undercooking your favorite dish.
    
    
    
    Blending anything is a whole lot different once you've got your hands on a Vitamix blender (originally priced at $700). Select on the touchscreen panel whether you want to blend smoothies, hot soups, dips, spreads or frozen desserts, then let the blades do the rest of the work. The Ascent series blenders are big enough to do the work, but short enough that they'll fit underneath your cabinets. 
    
    
    
    These silicone baking mats (normally $27) are a holiday cookie season staple -- and just as handy all year round for lining sheet pans when roasting vegetables or toasting nuts. Get a couple of these and stop wasting money on aluminum foil or wrestling with parchment paper.
    
    
    
    Perfect for crafting your next charcuterie or cheese board, this round marble serving tray (normally $40) is sure to come in handy during the holidays. Its thin circumference and light weight mean should be good for carrying to and from the kitchen. Pick up one for yourself or gift one to a holiday party host. 
    
    
    
    This Japanese knife brand is one of our favorites, so we can't help but splurge whenever they're on sale (this paring knife was originally $113). The knife's small, light size means you'll feel comfortable and in control when you're chopping garlic and peeling potatoes. 
    
    
    
    This Staub cocotte is just begging to be used all winter long. Available in 11 muted colors with enamel finishing, this traditional French cooking vessel is meant to be filled with soups, casseroles, stews, roasts and so on. Normally priced between $407 and $443, at its starting price of $100 (on select colors) it's a real steal. 
    
    
    
    We've had our eyes on this sleek coffee machine by Nespresso for a while, and now's the perfect time to grab one, thanks to this nearly 50% off discount (the coffee machine is normally $378). Make single-serve coffee, espresso, cappuccino and latte with Nespresso capsules, which will be ready in a matter of seconds. Plus, the attached milk frother whips up both cold and hot milk in under a minute.   
    
    
    
    This Breville Smart Oven (originally priced at $750) just about does it all: You can toast up to nine slices of bread at once, air-fry, broil, bake a tray of muffins and even roast a 14-pound turkey with this kitchen appliance, which easily fits on your counter. And thanks to its built-in quartz heating elements, the oven is able to maintain the accurate temperature and timing for everything you cook.  
    
    
    
    This article was written by Grace Gonzalez for Chowhound.Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.