Nick Jonas admitted that the Jonas Brothers used to lie and say that they opened for well-known artists like Kelly Clarkson years ago when they were an unknown band."No one cared about us in 2005. We were just coming up. And, basically, to get other gigs, we listed the other acts that we'd 'opened up' for," Jonas said on NBC's "The Kelly Clarkson Show" on Thursday."But that really just meant that we were on, like, the outside stage in the parking lot while you were playing for 40,000 people," the 27-year-old singer continued.Clarkson responded, "I love that."Jonas said that as a result of their white lie, the Jonas Brothers did actually gain some credibility."You helped us get a lot of gigs after that, so thank you," he said. "We owe you 20%."Before the revelation, Clarkson said that she felt "like I just got really cool" when she learned about her connection to the band, comprised of Jonas and his siblings Joe Jonas and Kevin Jonas.








        The Jonas Brothers in 2006.
      
Jason DeCrow/AP

Nowadays, Clarkson is a Grammy-winning musician with her own talk show, but she was an aspiring 20-year-old singer from Joshua, Texas, when she auditioned for season one of the reality-TV show "American Idol" in the early 2000s.Clarkson went on to win "Idol" and land a record deal. Her debut album, "Thankful," came out in 2003, and she has since released seven studio albums, with hit tracks like "Since U Been Gone," "Miss Independent," and "Because of You."The Jonas Brothers rose to fame in the mid-2000s as a boy band from New Jersey. In their 2019 Amazon documentary, "Chasing Happiness," the siblings detailed their career and spoke about traveling to cities like Boston to do small shows at school assemblies and other venues to gain a following.The crowds at their shows slowly increased, and they released their first studio album, "It's About Time," in 2006 with Columbia Records.Nick, Joe, and Kevin Jonas frequently appeared on Disney projects alongside rising stars like Miley Cyrus. They landed their own sitcom, "Jonas," which they later said "stunted our growth."The Jonas Brothers opened for the Backstreet Boys, Cyrus, and Avril Lavigne before headlining their own tours. After breaking up in 2013, they returned in 2019 with a new album, "Happiness Begins," as well as the Amazon documentary and a new tour with stops in the US, Mexico, and Europe.Watch the video below:Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
