Choosing a college major isn't easy, but it may be a smart idea to choose one in an industry that's expanding. We looked at industries that are expected to continue growing in the next decade to determine which college majors will become increasingly desirable in the 2020s.Industries related to technology, such as computer systems design and related services, are expected to continue expanding after a period of steady growth in 2019.Other industries, like construction, photography, and advertising, are seeing similar patterns of growth and will likely lead to a rise in desirability in associated college majors.Here are 10 college degrees that will be increasingly desirable in the 2020s.Last year, the accounting field saw 13% growth, and it's expected to keep growing. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment of accountants and auditors is projected to grow 6% from 2018 to 2028 but may fluctuate based on the economy. If the economy changes, for the better or for the worse, more people may be in need of financial services.The global advertising market is expected to expand exponentially in the next decade and reach $1,036.9 million by the year 2028. As the field grows, more talented advertising majors will be needed to keep up with increasing demand. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the field is expected to grow by 8%, which is faster than the average growth rate.After positive growth in 2018, the engineering industry is expected to continue growing at an average rate. Those majoring in engineering fields will be pleased to know that the median pay for civil engineering was $86,640 per year in 2018.According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the computer systems design field and related services are expected to add more than 520,000 jobs by the year 2028, at an annual growth rate of 2.2%. As the industry grows, more people educated in computer science, technology, IT, and other related fields will be needed to fill gaps in the job market.Many careers related to construction are growing, including construction management. According to Investopedia, building contracting, construction, remodeling, and renovation grew 14% last year, and many higher-up jobs in these fields may require a construction management degree.The industry as a whole is expected to grow by 4% by 2028, according to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics. Last year, the industry reported a 14% sales increase.Language interpretation and translation are expected to grow at a rate of 19%, which the Bureau of Labor and Statistics calls much faster than average. Most careers in language interpretation require a bachelor's degree, but salaries average around $49,930 per year.Investopedia reports that careers related to legal services are growing in opportunity. More than 50,000 jobs are expected to be added to the field by 2028. However, most careers in law require at least a doctoral or professional degree.Nursing is expected to grow 12% by 2028, double the average growth rate for other occupations, and is reportedly adding 371,500 jobs to the market. According to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics, registered nurses usually earn either a Bachelor of Science degree in nursing (BSN), an associate's degree in nursing (ADN), or receive a diploma from an approved nursing program.According to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics, a bachelor's degree in social work is the most common requirement for entry-level administrative social work positions. The industry as a whole is expected to grow 11% by 2028 and add 81,200 jobs.