Buying gifts is tricky enough as it is, but it can feel extra difficult when that special someone in your life is especially stylish, so Insider turned to celebrity stylists Nicole Chavez, Rebecca Dennett, and Samantha Brown for some help. From cashmere robes and washable leather pants to waterproof briefcases and a gorgeous bucket hat, they've got something for everyone. And the stylists, whose clients include Catherine Zeta-Jones, Jodie Comer, and Kristen Bell, also revealed the gifts on their own wish lists this year. Nicole Chavez loves these unisex slipper booties, which are made of soft wool and lined with kumazasa extract, a Japanese plant that helps absorb moisture. Cost: $82Find out more about the Sasawashi Japanese Winter Room Boots by Morihata International here.The turtleneck sweater has colorful felt panels meant to mimic the look of a stained-glass window. Cost: $836.50Find out more about the "Pain In The Glass" turtleneck sweater by Rosie Assoulin here.The socks come in three colors: oatmeal, rust, or ivory. Cost: $65Find out more about the cashmere socks by Jenni Kayne here."One of my personal favorite things is my cashmere bathrobe, so I know firsthand that this would make an excellent gift," Samantha Brown told Insider. Cost: $325 Find out more about the Ynes Robe from NakedCashmere here.Dennett recommends this gold tag necklace by British jewelry brand Otiumberg, which offers free shipping in the US, UK, and any country in the European Union.  Cost: $320.84 Find out more about the Gold Tag Necklace by Otiumberg here.This black patent bucket hat made it onto Dennett's Christmas wish list. Cost: $85 Find out more about the Black Patent Bucket Hat from The Frankie Shop here.Dennett told Insider that she wants these sunglasses for herself this Christmas as well. Cost: $275 Find out more about these Salvatore Ferragamo sunglasses here.Dennett loves this new jacket from The North Face, which comes in red, black, purple, blue, yellow, and silver. Cost: $249Find out more about the 1996 Retro Nuptse Jacket from The North Face here.These moto pants are at the top of Brown's holiday wish list this year. Cost: $1,650 Find out more about the Moto Pant from Karolina Zmarlak here.The beanie, a Dennett pick, comes in red, black, charcoal, orange, olive, and green. Cost: $45 Find out more about the Watch Cap Beanie by Filson here.The iPhone case, which is covered and lined in soft Italian leather, can be customized with a variety of fonts and colors. Cost: $217 to $243Find out more about the Custom Classic Leather iPhone Case from Chaos here."Chic luggage is always a big hit, as most people don't make the investment in good, quality travel pieces," Brown added. Cost: $436 Find out more about the Spinner Carry-On from Zero Halliburton here.Dennett loves this briefcase by Filson, which comes in tan, green, navy, and two different shades of gray. Cost: $325 Find out more about the Rugged Twill Original Briefcase by Filson here."Travel luggage should be as elegant as the clothes inside, and this hat box from Calpak will not disappoint," Brown told Insider. Cost: $145 Find out more about the Baye Large Hat Box from Calpak here.Chavez recommends gifting this fabric shaver to any fashionista in your life to help keep their threads looking fresh.Cost: $49.95Find out more about the Pilo Fabric Shaver by Steamery here.Chavez also recommends this travel steamer, which barely weighs one pound and can get started in 25 seconds. Cost: $130 Find out more about Steamery's No. 2 Travel Steamer here.Chavez recommends these eco-friendly bags for the stylish jet-setter in your life. Cost: $45 for the large pouch Find out more about the Clarity Pouch by Truffle here.Dennett loves these dry sheet masks, which are meant to give you a "dewy, healthier-looking complexion." Each mask can be used up to three times. Cost: $80 for a pack of four masks Find out more about Charlotte Tilbury's Instant Magic Facial Dry Sheet Mask here."For your friends and family who appreciate simple luxuries, silk pillowcases feel special and do wonders for your skin and hair," Brown told Insider. Cost: $85 for one pillowcaseFind out more about the silk pillowcases from Slip here.Dennett told Insider that she's putting the candle on her own wish list this year. Cost: $43 Find out more about the Burning Rose Candle from Byredo here.This wireless multi-room smart speaker has an Amazon Alexa built-in, so you can control the music with just your voice. Cost: $299.99 Find out more about the Smart Speaker by Marshall here.The 12 coasters feature six different graphic designs on one side, and a matching design on the other. Cost: $95 Find out more about the coasters by Hermès here.These crystal glasses feature hand-cut fluting which, according to the description, "catches and reflects light" and gives a "sparkling presentation to cocktails and generous pours of liquor served on the rocks." Cost: $15.96 to $63.96Find out more about the Dorset Crystal Double Old-Fashioned Glasses from Williams Sonoma here. The planner comes in a variety of colors, including pink, red, dark-green, and indigo. Cost: $46 Find out more about the Ink+Volt 2020 Planner here.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
