Greta Thunberg may be Time's Person of the Year, but she should also be named Twitter's person of the year because she's once again used the platform to shut down President Trump in the coldest possible way.On Thursday morning, which also happens to be when the House Judiciary is publicly debating the articles of impeachment, the president (a grown man) attacked the teenage climate activist. He may have been trying to distract everyone from his precarious political position, but it turned out to be a beautiful self own.He launched in with an extremely icky tweet, writing, "So ridiculous. Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill!"So ridiculous. Greta must work on her Anger Management problem, then go to a good old fashioned movie with a friend! Chill Greta, Chill! https://t.co/M8ZtS8okzE— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 12, 2019Clearly, he's not thrilled that she got the title he seems to covet most. (He was, for the record, chosen as their Person of the Year in 2016.) His campaign even Photoshopped his head onto Greta's body on the Time cover for reasons which are not entirely clear...— Trump War Room (Text TRUMP to 88022) (@TrumpWarRoom) December 11, 2019But Thunberg, who is no fan of Trump's either, quickly turned it around on him. She didn't deign to waste her energy on an actual tweet or subtweet. Instead she simply changed her Twitter bio to read, "A teenager working on her anger management problem. Currently chilling and watching a good old fashioned movie with a friend."




Image:  Mashable Screenshot/Twitter
Game. Set. Match. This isn't the first time Greta has responded to the president this way. She also did it, to great fanfare, after he mocked her impassioned U.N. speech. You'd think that Trump might have learned by now not to tangle online with such a brilliant teen, but honestly it's kind of satisfying to watch him walk into the same internet buzzsaw over and over.UPDATE: Dec. 12, 2019, 12:10 p.m. EST This article has been updated to include the campaign's photoshopped 'Time' cover.