Florida State has fired head coach Willie Taggart after just 21 games at the helm, a move that promises to cost the university many millions of dollars.Just a few years back, the Seminoles were a powerhouse in the ACC and consistently contenders for the national championship. But after winning a national championship and three conference championships in his eight-year tenure, former head coach Jimbo Fisher left the sunshine state for College Station to coach the Texas A&M Aggies and left the program in Taggart's hands.








        Florida State head coach Willie Taggart, right, disagrees with the referee in the first half of an NCAA college football game against Miami in Tallahassee, Fla., Saturday, Nov. 2, 2019.
      
Associated Press

Since then, Taggart — who came to Florida State by way of South Florida — has struggled to return the program to its former glory. He led the Seminoles to a 9-12 record and failed to notch a single win against either of the school's in-state rivals — the Miami Hurricanes and the Florida Gators — in his less than two seasons at the helm. Taggart also lost each of his matchups against the Clemson Tigers, the other ACC football heavyweight."I think very highly of Coach Taggart and wish him well, but in the interest of the university, we had no choice but to make a change," Florida State University President John Thrasher said in a statement released by the school. "We will support our student-athletes in every way and do all we can to return to the winning tradition that is Seminole football."The university owes Taggart $18 million by choosing to terminate his contract this month. Had school officials waited until January to fire him, they would have saved a full $1 million. Taggart had upwards of four years remaining on his contract and is guaranteed 85% of his salary.According to Yahoo Sports' Pete Thamel, Florida State will likely spend more than $20 million to buy out Taggart and his staff at the end of the 2019-2020 season, making this one of the more expensive coaching terminations in college football history.The Seminoles are currently 4-5 on the season and have a losing record in conference play. Florida State has three more games remaining this year.