Fortnite Chapter 2 is officially here, and with it comes a significant change to the way players will be leveling up their Battle Pass. While Missions will still be in the game, players will no longer be competing for Battle Stars. Instead, the goal is to get normal XP. With a larger focus on XP and less grinding, players should be able to level up their Battle Pass even faster, earning a variety of rewards on the way.Unlike Season X's mission setup, there will be no time prestige missions, and the focal point is simply completing tasks as you play the game. Instead of having to complete the same mission with added difficulty, now you'll just be unlocking new missions as you complete the ones already available to you. The fifth week of Fortnite Chapter 2 isn't live until Thursday morning, but that didn't stop the missions for the week leaking a bit early.Twitter user iFireMonkey — who is well-known for datamining various Fortnite secrets — uncovered the following list.Week 5 "Hide And Seek" Challenge SheetLoading Screen Location: Frenzy FarmsSide Note: Despite the challenges being added in v11.10, the loading screen, icon, and some other bits weren't added. We will have a downtime update before Week 5 comes out that adds the missing info pic.twitter.com/m7bHajFFOJThis week features some particularly easy challenges that will mostly just have you searching various locations for items or harvesting material. You can check out the full list of challenges below, and remember, the challenges won't be live until 9:30 a.m. EDT on Thursday, Nov. 14.As is the case every season, we'll have challenge guides ready for any challenges that might be extra difficult. In the meantime, head out and start collecting some XP!Related: How to find the hidden 'I' in Hide and Seek Loading ScreenThe Hide and Seek missions will drop Thursday at 9:30 AM EDT.2019 isn't over yet, so that means that we need another high profile phone to leak out. Well, here comes Samsung and the Galaxy S11+ to save us with new renders to show off its massive camera bump.Disney+ just added the "Continue Watching" section to its app, one of the most requested features since it launched.Black Friday is right around the corner, and that means massive discounts on all sorts of Android phones. Do you plan on picking one up during this year's shopping season?If you have someone in your life that lives or dies by their PlayStation 4, these gift ideas may make you their favorite person this year.Anthony Nash has been writing about games and the gaming industry for nearly a decade. When he’s not writing about games, he’s usually playing them.Sign up now to be notified of the latest news, rumors, & more