Esto también se puede leer en español.Don't show this againYou're already late -- but you can still save right now with massive deals on the PS4, Nintendo Switch and Xbox One consoles, games and accessories.Black Friday isn't far off and we're already seeing some of the best price cuts of the year on PS4, XBox One and Nintendo Switch bundles, games, consoles and accessories. By the time you read this article, some vendors may already be selling out, so the best time to buy is now.Walmart, Amazon, Best Buy, GameStop and Target all have excellent offerings in advance of the holidays. There aren't many Nintendo Switch deals out there, but as you can see below, you can get the Nintendo Switch V2 with Spyro Reignited Trilogy at Walmart for $299 right now -- arguably a better deal than the Mario Kart bundle that's set to land on Thursday. For a limited time, the Switch Lite is available for just $175.Also, a word to the wise: Both the PlayStation 5 and next Xbox are scheduled to be released in late 2020, and they'll play games from their respective predecessors. That said, they are at least a year away, so a PS4 or Xbox One can still make a great gift for this holiday season. The bundles below link to specific retailers, but most of the PS4 and Xbox deals are widely available.This is the best we've seen this season. Last year, you got the same console plus Spider-Man at this price, so this is a pretty big ramp-up. That pulls together three of the best PS4 exclusives -- albeit ones that are not for younger kids. Read more at GameSpot: The best PS4 Black Friday 2019 deals.
    
    
                            Read our Sony PS4 Slim review.
    
    More PS4 deals:Sure, you can get an Xbox One S for about $200 less than the Xbox One X, but if you do that you're sacrificing native 4K gaming, and these days, why would you want to do that? For Black Friday, Best Buy is bundling the Xbox One X with the deluxe edition of Star Wars: Jedi Fallen Order for $350. If you're a Star Wars fan, this is the bundle to get -- everyone, it seems, is hotly anticipating Jedi Fallen Order, and the deluxe edition adds bonus skins for the BD-1 and Stinger Mantis as well as a digital art book and 90 minutes of behind the scenes footage from the making of the game. You can whet your appetite by reading CNET's Sean Keane's extensive look at the game. Oh, and the bundle also includes three months of Xbox Live Gold. 
    
    
                            Read our Xbox One X review.
    
    The Xbox One S may not have all the horsepower of an Xbox One X, but  given the price difference between the consoles, it might be a worth compromise (especially if your TV isn't equipped to handle HDR anyway, for example). We love this deal because it lands  you Jedi Fallen Order and a new Xbox for almost half the cost of the  Xbox One X bundle. You can also get it at Target with $40 in Target bucks thrown in.
    
    
                            Read our Xbox One S review.
    
    Check out more Black Friday Xbox deals here:This is the new version of the Switch, which offers an improved battery life of 4.5 to 9 hours. And with this bundle, it's more or less like getting   Spyro Reignited Trilogy for free. Available right now.
The Switch Lite is barely a month old, and for that reason alone, we didn't expect to see any deals for Black Friday 2019. But while it's $200 pretty much everywhere, we did find it -- for a limited time, and while supplies last -- for $175. Right now, Antonline (via Google Shopping) has the Nintendo Switch Lite for $175 when you apply promo code 19CYBERNS at checkout.When this deal runs out, it's back to $200 pretty much everywhere. 
    
    
                            Read our Nintendo Switch Lite review.
    
    Nintendo is bundling a digital download code for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe with a first-gen Switch console for $300, which saves you a cool $50 or so. That's a solid deal, but be aware that doesn't feature the newer Switch with the somewhat longer battery life -- you're getting the HAC-001, which features the original 4.5 hour run time. Here's a full breakdown of the difference between the models in detail. Bottom line: Get this bundle if you're buying for someone who's a Switch "docker" -- a "hander" will want the newer model with better battery life. This deal begins on Nov. 28. Read more: The best Nintendo Switch deals for Black Friday 2019
Check out more Black Friday Nintendo Switch deals (starting Wednesday, Nov. 27):Originally posted earlier. Updated with additional deals and information.     CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on tech products and much more. For the latest deals and updates, follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter. Questions about the Cheapskate blog? Find the answers on our FAQ page, and find more great buys on the CNET Deals page. Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.