CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againTime to pull the trigger on that fancy saucepan.Did you sleep through Cyber Week in an effort to purposefully avoid the crowds? Well, luckily for you, there are still pretty good sales happening in December, including an All-Clad sale over at Home and Cook (All-Clad's factory site). A slew of items are 15% off through Dec. 13 (sale prices will be reflected in the cart), giving you plenty of time to stock up on holiday gifts for your beloved friends and family -- and yourself, of course. These items are marked as factory seconds due to minor physical defects, with no impact on performance. Grab them while you can -- there's no need to miss out on the goods this round. Bake and cook in absolute style with this five-piece measuring cup set. The cups are designed to resemble All-Clad's famous saucepan, boasting the signature grooved handles.
    
    
    
    This gorgeous stainless steel pan is just begging to be layered with lasagna ingredients and casseroles. Plus, it comes with two bright red oven mitts, so you won't burn yourself. 
    
    
    
    Fry up, sauté and sear all of your favorite things with these fry pans, which come in three sizes: 8-, 10- and 12-inch. The nonstick pans mean you'll be cooking with less oil, and their slick surface guarantees a super easy cleanup.  
A stronger marriage has never been witnessed than the one between this 8-inch fry pan and 1-quart sauce pan. The two pans were designed to complement one another: sear and sauté in the fry pan while you bubble a sauce or compote that perfectly pairs with whatever you're cooking. 
    
    
    
    This collection of nonstick hard anodized cookware is bound to impress every cook. The set includes 8-, 10- and 12- pans, 2-, 3- and 4-quart saucepans with matching lids, a 4-quart sauté pan with a lid, a 4-quart soup pot with a lid and an 8-quart stock pot with a lid.
    
    
    
    Normally ringing in at more than $1,500, this 10-piece cookware set is over 50% off and comes with 8- and 10-inch fry pans, 1.5- and 3-quart sauce pans with lids, a 3-quart sauté pan with a lid and an 8-quart stockpot with a lid.  
    
    
    
    Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.