CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againLet's see who wins Game of the Year.Who's going to be the big winner?The Game Awards is the annual show celebrating the video game industry. It's also an event where big announcements may happen. This year's show takes place on Thursday at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles. Geoff Keighley, producer and creator of The Game Awards, says there'll be 10 reveals that night along with the dozens of awards given to the people making the games, to esports competitors and to others within the industry. The Game Awards start at 8:30 p.m. ET/5:30 p.m. PT on Thursday, Dec. 12. It'll stream on multiple platforms such as:Our sister site Gamespot will also stream the event. Those interested in the show can also check it out at a nearby theater. Cinemark Theatres partnered with The Game Awards for a special showing of the event along with the world premiere of Jumanji: The Next Level. Theater locations and ticket pricing can be found at the Cinemark website. There are 29 categories at this year's Game Awards. Some are within a certain genre, such as best role-playing game or sports game. Others focus on esports including best team, players and coach. There are also a handful of technical categories such as best visuals and audio. The big award of the night, however, will be Game of the Year. The nominees:ControlDeath StrandingResident Evil 2Sekiro: Shadows Die TwiceThe Outer WorldsSuper Smash Bros. Ultimate Super Smash Bros. Ultimate came out in December 2018, which was after the deadline for last year's Game Awards so it's being allowed into the running for awards in 2019. You can find a full list of winners, losers, surprises and some of the immediate reactions over at our results page -- we'll be constantly updating throughout the show and totally *not* hyped up on Monster Energy drinks.A few companies are hinting about a reveal of sorts at The Game Awards. Sucker Punch Productions, developer of the upcoming Ghost of Tsushima, sent a tweet Tuesday with a portion of a trailer for the game. To be continued...12.12.19#TheGameAwards #GhostOfTsushima pic.twitter.com/LHsSJEVhOkEpic Games also tweeted on Tuesday that it will have some Fortnite news to reveal during the show. This will likely be news about the current season of the game. The official Dungeons & Dragons Twitter account tweeted Wednesday that it will see Montreal-based developer Tuque Games at the show. The company is working on a game based on the fantasy franchise. Hey, @TuqueGames. See you @thegameawards. pic.twitter.com/0OPxDv6pwwThere will also be performances from Grimes, Chvrches and Green Day during the Game Awards livestream on Thursday. Chvrches   is expected to perform its song Death Stranding from the Hideo Kojima video game of the same title.Something new this year for The Game Awards is its own digital event. The Game Festival lets players try out demos for some upcoming games for 48 hours on Steam. So far the games available during the two days are these: The Game Festival runs from Thursday, Dec. 12, at 1 p.m. ET/10 a.m. PT to Saturday, Dec. 14, at 1 p.m. ET/10 a.m. PT.Originally published Dec. 12 and updated as new information is revealed.Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.