Kim Kardashian West announced this week that her shapewear line, Skims, would launch two new products: body tape and pasties.In posts on Twitter announcing the new products, set to go on sale Thursday on the Skims website, Kardashian West described the tape and pasties as being made of a sweatproof, stretchy material.Representatives for Skims told Insider that the body tape and pasties were designed only for the breast area and confirmed that both products would be available in three colors.A video on the Skims Instagram account demonstrates how the body tape is meant to be applied, instructing users to apply a 16-inch strip of tape from below each breast to the top of the shoulder.
The SKIMS Tonal Body Tape ($36) in Sandstone — launching NOVEMBER 14 at 9AM PST / 12PM EST. Join the waitlist now at SKIMS.COM to be the first to shop.A post shared by  SKIMS (@skims) on Nov 12, 2019 at 1:00pm PSTNov 12, 2019 at 1:00pm PST
Kardashian West then took a personal approach to promote her brand's new body tape. She posted a series of photos on her Instagram Story highlighting how she said she'd "taped up" in the past and used body tape (in the form of duct tape and gaffer's tape) when sporting tricky necklines and iconic outfits.








        Kardashian West shared body-tape tips on her Instagram Story.
      

Presley Ann/Getty Images for ABA; Kim Kardashian West/Instagram


On her Instagram Story, the Skims entrepreneur shared a photo from a 2018 KKW Beauty pop-up shop. She pointed out the elaborate white outfit she wore to the event, saying she recommended using body tape any time "a top is risky."








        Kardashian West often uses body tape when she wears blazers.
      

Neilson Barnard/Getty Images for LACMA; Kim Kardashian West/Instagram


Here, she used a photo from a 2017 event in Los Angeles, where she sported her signature oversize blazer look, thanks to support from her favorite body-tape method.








        Kardashian West wrote that she used body tape to wear this blazer-style dress in 2017.
      

Marc Piasecki/GC Images; Kim Kardashian West/Instagram


Kardashian West subtly hyped up the versatility of the new Skims body tape and pasties products by showing how she'd used tape when wearing clothes with a variety of necklines. Here, she shared a photo of herself from 2017, when she wore a low-cut, pinstripe blazer-style dress.








        Kardashian West shared with her followers how body tape could replace a traditional bra.
      

Dominik Bindl/Getty Images; Kim Kardashian West/Instagram


She shared a photo of herself in a showstopping gown from 2018, writing: "I tape the front so I can wear a backless dress! Since you can't wear a bra."Though her Story didn't appear to contain any photos of her damaged skin, Kardashian West wrote on an Instagram Story slide: "I wish @skims tape existed because I will find pictures of my ripped skin once I took the tape off!"If it wasn't obvious from her series of photos, Kardashian West is certainly a big believer in body tape. Only time will tell if Skims customers share her excitement toward the new products and her signature "taping-up" method.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
