Rupert Grint told Entertainment Tonight's Rachel Smith that there "were some sparks" between Emma Watson and Tom Felton while they were filming "Harry Potter."Speaking ahead of his new AppleTV+ thriller series "The Servant," the Ron Weasley star said: "There was always something [between them]."There was a little bit of a spark."He stipulated that he didn't wish to fan rumors about their romance now, though. "We were kids," he said. "It was like any kind of playground romance."Grant said that he himself did not have a similar connection with any fellow cast members: "I was spark-free."In recent months, fans have been begging for "Dramione" (Draco and Hermione) to couple up after Felton shared images on Instagram of him and Watson hanging out in South Africa in August.
Quick learner xA post shared by  Tom Felton (@t22felton) on Aug 19, 2019 at 4:51am PDTAug 19, 2019 at 4:51am PDT
 Watson previously acknowledged having a crush on Felton while they filmed the "Harry Potter" movie series."Between the ages of 10 and 12, I had a really terrible crush on Tom Felton," she told British TV's "The Jonathan Ross Show" in 2012."We love a bad guy and he was a few years older and he had a skateboard. And that just did it, really. He used to do tricks on it. He was so cool."It seems the feelings weren't reciprocated at the time, however: "He totally knew [I had a crush]. And the thing is, he'd turn and go, 'Oh, I see her in a younger sisterly way.' And it just broke my heart, still does."Felton later said that he was very flattered by Watson's crush but that nothing of a romantic nature ever happened between them — "Sorry to disappoint," he told E! News in 2016.Read more:Emma Watson and Tom Felton have been good friends ever since 'Harry Potter.' Here are their cutest moments together.The actor who played Neville Longbottom in 'Harry Potter' told Tom Felton to 'speak for yourself' after the Malfoy actor said 'aging's a b----'Henry Golding used to interview celebrities on red carpets and was starstruck by Daniel Radcliffe during his 'Harry Potter' daysThe actress who played Luna Lovegood reunited with other 'Harry Potter' fan-favorites 9 years after wrapping the last filmTimothée Chalamet admits he was starstruck when he first saw 'Harry Potter' star Emma Watson in real lifeLike what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
