This is what happens when you’re late. Final Score: 6-2 PanthersI don’t know how many times in the first 12 games that I’ve written about the Oilers needing to develop a killer instinct and kick teams while they’re down. Has to be at least half of the games right? Yet, so far, we haven’t really seen the boys lay the boots to a team that’s below them in the standings, but, in my mind, the good news was that this afternoon’s game against the Panthers provided another opportunity to make that happen. Throwing on my totally biased Oilers fan hat, I was hoping for the boys to have their knives sharpened and ready to kill. That said, in their matchup against the Flames on Thursday night, Florida managed to come back from behind several times, took the game to overtime, and almost closed out an improbable win so we knew that they’re working with a flavour of resilience that the Oilers needed to be aware of if the result was going to go their way.When the game started, the Oilers decided to be gracious hosts and spot the Panthers with a few minutes of offensive pressure before finally realized that it would be a good idea to join in the fun. After settling in and getting their legs moving, the ice started to even out a bit and the Oilers were able to finesse their way into some chances on goal. Neither team scored, but neither team was running away with it either. Heading into the middle frame with the score tied at bagels, it didn’t take long for the Panthers to end the stalemate as they put up three goals in quick succession, forcing the Oilers into a deficit that may as well have been a village-sized chasm. The boys weren’t ready to go and they got punished for it. Needless to say, crawling out of a three-goal hole is a feat you don’t often see in the NHL and the Oilers were going to have to be basically perfect if they were going to pull it off.Unfortunately, being perfect was too far out of reach and while the Oilers were able to finally get themselves on the board with a pair of third frame goals, their bad start to the second and third periods ultimately sunk the ship and sent the Oilers back to the loss column. All you can really do is shake this one off and move on.The wrap.If we get more than 5 shots on net this period I will get this portrait tattoo pic.twitter.com/8QEXf9sr6N— Aime (@aimeok) October 27, 2019Hey @EdmontonOilers and @RogersPlace, one of my girlfriends I’m with lied to her boss to be at this game. If you could get her on the screen that would be great. Section 120 row 10. Thanks. #yeg— Lisa Evans (@TheLisaEvans) October 27, 2019Do the Panthers have a guy named Atari?— Count von Towel (@TheTowelBoy) October 27, 2019The #Oilers bottom 6 doesn't have a goal but they do have 5 Shots on net today!— Hernan Salas (@HernanDaMan) October 27, 2019Talk to me, Twitter. Tweet at @OilersnationHQ and @jsbmbaggedmilk for your chance to land in the Best of the Tweets.We launched a brand new Hope Will Never Die line of NationGear which is now available. Check out the entire product line here.Source: NHL, Official Game Page, 10/27/2019 – 4:45 pm MTBy baggedmilkFinal  3 - 4 (SO)VSPollThe Nation NetworkCopyright © 2019 The Nation Network Inc.Not a member? Join the NationPlease enter your email address to reset your password.