Kylie Jenner has denied trying to sue a family selling "Rise and Shine" t-shirts after a rumor circulated on social media that she had sent them cease and desist letters.Several accounts started posting a screenshot over the weekend which told the supposed story, involving a small family business called Cased Clothing on the Gold Coast. The family were apparently quoted saying they only had a few t-shirts and they didn't plan on selling them because of the legal bills.But Jenner soon spoke out against the circulating story and said it wasn't true."Guys, please don't believe everything you read," she tweeted. "I have not sent any Rise and Shine cease and desist letters."She said the whole "Rise and Shine" meme, that started with a clip of her singing to her daughter Stormi in the morning, was an "unexpected moment.""I had a lot of fun with it, and I have laughed so hard seeing everyone's memes since the video came out a few weeks ago," she said."There are no law suits, no cease and desist letters. Happy Sunday."Cased Clothing, which is a real brand, also released a statement saying the company did not want any part of the drama, and that they were as confused as everyone else about where the story started."KYLIE HAS NOT SENT US ANY LETTERS," the company said on Instagram. "We are not being sued ... All Kardashian/Jenner 'hate' comments will be deleted. We do not agree with bringing people down."
KYLIE HAS NOT SENT US ANY LETTERS. We are not being sued.. . . . All kardashian/Jenner “hate” comments will be deleted. We do not agree with bringing people downA post shared by  Casedclothing (@casedclothing) on Oct 31, 2019 at 11:53pm PDTOct 31, 2019 at 11:53pm PDT
Jenner filed two trademark applications for "rise and shine" when the video went viral in October. She soon started selling merch, including hoodies that featured an image of her face as the sun, for $65 each.Read more:Kim and Khloe Kardashian give Kylie Jenner's 'rise and shine' a run for its money by singing Kourtney's good morning songPeople are memeing Kylie Jenner singing 'rise and shine' to her daughter, and now even Ariana Grande is in on the actionKylie Jenner shuts down reports that she had a '2 a.m. date with Tyga'Kylie Jenner deleted an Instagram video of her new $3 million Bugatti Chiron after being criticized for flaunting her wealthKylie Jenner and Travis Scott have reportedly split after 2 years together. Here's a complete timeline of their relationship.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
