
            Insider Inc. receives a commission from our affiliate partners when you buy through our links, but our reporting and recommendations are always independent and objective. Learn more.Whether you're hooking up a video game console, cable box, media-streaming device, or Blu-ray player to a high-definition TV in your home theater setup, or a computer to a monitor in your home office, chances are that you'll be using an HDMI cable.HDMI cables are used for carrying sound and picture signals from a source to a display. They may all look similar, but in fact, not all are created equal. The standard option is suitable for most people, but if you're planning to transmit higher video resolutions like 4K, you will need a high-speed HDMI cable. There are also different types of HDMI connectors, ranging from regular size (Type A) to Mini HDMI (Type C) and Micro HDMI (Type D), with the latter two being used by cameras and other portable devices. Then, there are HDMI cables that support Ethernet and there are those made for automotive use.Like anything in tech, we could get really geeky on you, but if you're looking to just buy an HDMI cable to hook up some audio-video gear, let's skip the minutiae. Here are some basic tips you need to keep in mind:We picked four products that offer value and performance. We also focused on HDMI cables with standard connectors, as they are most common.Updated on 10/31/2019 by Les Shu: Updated pricing, links, formatting, and buying advice. Removed budget option as our overall pick is a quality HDMI cable with an already low price. Added new option for strong cable.If you're looking for an HDMI cable that should serve you perfectly in 99% of situations, then we think the best choice is the AmazonBasics HDMI cable. It's inexpensive, high quality, and will do the job perfectly.This is a high-speed HDMI cable with Ethernet, so it'll support a shared internet connection without the need for a separate cable. It also supports all modern HDMI standards, so whether you're connecting a 1080p TV to a cable box or a PlayStation 4 Pro to a 4K TV, it will work just fine.Besides the low cost, another thing we like is the different lengths available. You can a short 3-foot cable or upgrade to longer ones, including a 50-foot cable (we don't recommend going any longer than that).Should it fail, Amazon covers the product with a lifetime warranty. The Wirecutter also likes this cable, but it pointed out that longer versions will likely not support 4K. — Christian de LooperPros: Inexpensive, various lengths, works with nearly all devices has a standard HDMI portCons: Plastic coveringGenerally speaking, HDMI cables are just pipes for sending data, but they tend to degrade a little over long distances, especially when they're lower-quality cables. If you need to transmit a signal over longer distances, especially 4K, then you may need slightly higher-quality cables like the Monoprice Active Select Series HDMI cable.The cable is able to transmit data more efficiently over long distances because it has its own chips built into the connectors while maintaining thinness in the wiring. It's available in a range of lengths (15 feet to 60) and supports high-speed data transfer with Ethernet.The tradeoff is that it's a little more expensive than most of the other cables in our guide. — Christian de LooperPros: Different lengths, great over long distances, long and thin cableCons: A little expensiveMany of the HDMI cables on this list are fine for most users, but sometimes you might want something a little stronger, like the Kevlar-reinforced III Series from Austere.Now, to be clear, a rugged HDMI cable won't perform any better than the others recommended here. We also want to remind you that you don't have to spend a lot of money on a great HDMI cable because Austere cables are very expensive. I have not encountered any problems when using an affordable HDMI cable, like the one from AmazonBasics, with my PlayStation 4, Xbox 360, Verizon Fios cable box from Motorola, and GoPro cameras (with an adapter); when using the Austere cable, I didn't find it to work any better or worse.With that said, if I was connecting ultra-expensive home entertainment equipment — say, a Marantz receiver — I would probably recommend spending a bit more on high-end cables (this is actually Austere's affordable offering, as the V Series costs even more). The Austere III Series, available in approximately 5-, 8-, and 16-feet lengths — are very well made and they look luxurious, due to the tough exterior and gold-plated connectors. The gold shielding is designed to create a high-quality connection, but many AV experts will tell you that it doesn't matter with digital signals (it can make a difference with analog cables).Unless you are connecting premium equipment or you have money to spend, I wouldn't recommend this as your first or second pick. But I do appreciate Austere's craftsmanship, support for the latest specs (including 4K HDR), and the lifetime warranty.If you want something less expensive but still strong, consider our previous pick, the SecurOMax HDMI cables, available in 3 and 6 feet. These are braided for extra protection and work just as well. — Les ShuPros: Lifetime warranty, Kevlar reinforced, supports latest 4K specsCons: Very expensiveCorrection: We previously stated that the Austere III Series does not support Ethernet. That's incorrect — it does. We have updated the copy to reflect the correction.All of the HDMI cables in our guide will do the job perfectly fine, but sometimes in your home theater setup, you may need an angled cable to make for a cleaner look or if the HDMI port is awkwardly placed on the device. That's where the UGreen 90-degree HDMI cable comes in.The UGreen 90-degree HDMI cable is available in 3-foot, 6-foot, and 10-foot lengths. They're not too expensive, either, and all lengths support high-speed connections and Ethernet.The main reason to buy the cable is the angled connector. Otherwise, just get our overall pick. As an alternative, you can purchase angled HDMI adapters that transform any regular HDMI cable connector. — Christian de LooperPros: Angled connector, different lengthsCons: Not as high-quality construction as some othersSubscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.