It doesn't get as much attention as picking stocks, but any financial adviser will tell you that minimizing your tax bill is a critical part of succeeding at investing.That means it's a major focus for Dane Runia, a managing director and private wealth adviser with Merrill Lynch's Runia Group, which manages $2.7 billion for clients with at least $10 million in assets. On Wall Street named Runia the best wealth adviser under 40 in both 2018 and 2019, and Forbes dubbed him one of the best next-generation wealth managers.In an exclusive interview with Business Insider, Dane Runia, explained how he handled the basic investing tactic of tax-loss harvesting, or selling a stock at a loss to offset some taxes that are owed on investments that have appreciated in value. Despite the concept's simplicity, he says, it can quickly grow complicated.One complication is timing, as an investor who still believes in a poorly performing stock may want to swiftly buy it back at a lower price. Runia cautions that investors who sell a stock for a loss and buy it back in less than 30 days will wipe out the tax benefit they were hoping for, triggering what's called a "wash sale."That applies even if they sell the stock out of one account and buy it in another."It's not account-specific," he said of the wash-sale rule. "It's for your household or you individually. You can't buy something in your taxable account if you sold in your retirement account."A second complication is that, put into practice repeatedly, tax selling can distort a portfolio over time. That can create an alignment that isn't ideal, for example by overweighting the stocks that have done best — which might also be the stocks most vulnerable to a pullback.Runia says that when he sells a stock for tax reasons, he will often replace it with something similar. Doing so helps him keep his clients' portfolios allocated properly."A lot of times we'll sell an individual stock and buy one of its competitors if there's a 'Buy' rating, or buy the sector ETF as a placeholder for 31 days so we don't have a wash sale," he said.After those 31 days have elapsed, Runia says, he'll consider selling that replacement asset and buying back the original stock if it still looks appealing. In either case, he says, he makes a point of reinvesting quickly instead of holding cash."If you were to go to cash with those proceeds of the stock you sold to harvest the loss, then you're basically hoping that the stock market drops or that particular stock drops even more before you buy it back," he said. "We really aren't in the game of trying to time the market."While more and more investors are getting broad exposure to the stock market through exchange-traded funds and index funds, Runia says it's a good idea to own individual securities precisely so they can make sure they'll have the opportunity to take advantage of those losses — since in a year like this, it can be hard to find those losers."Having individual securities give you the flexibility to actually do some tax-loss harvesting," he said. "If you just have an S&P 500 ETF in a year like this and the thing is up 20%, you can't just sell part of those securities inside the ETF for losses."