Joel and his wife Amanda had hung floating lights that looked like the Hogwarts great hall in their Austin, Texas, yard in 2016, but Joel wanted to do something more involved for the 2017 season in an effort to help Amanda take her mind off dealing with cancer."She had been beaten down by the numerous surgeries and difficult recovery, so I wanted to do something fun to take her mind off of it," Joel said of Amanda's cancer and his inspiration for the flying car.The vehicle made Amanda laugh, Joel said, and they and their son ended up adding a few more Harry Potter items to their yard, getting attention from their neighbors. Amanda was in recovery in 2018, and it gave the Paces time to reflect on the previous year's display."As we talked about it, we remembered how wonderful the experience was when everyone (especially the littles) come up and see the display, how happy it made everyone, and how warm and nurtured we felt from the experience," Joel said."That's when we decided to go big for 2018," Joel said. It also became a fundraiser that year, with the display raising money for the Texas-based nonprofit Foster Angels of Central Texas and Variety Arts.Joel said close friends of the family help to build the structures on a regular basis, but "a host of other neighbors and friends pop in for an hour here, or 30 minutes on a Saturday." "We use it to connect with our neighbors and to build a real community," he added. "I feel so close to my neighbors now."Joel said he learned to use insulation board after a mishap in 2017."Here's a builder's tip: don't use cardboard," he said. "If it rains (and it has rained each Halloween for the last three years), it will destroy the props."  This structure recreates Florean's ice cream shop.Joel typically uses boards that are eight feet by eight feet for the buildings, making them large enough to look impressive as attendees walk through but not so big that they can't fit in their driveway. "There are no instruction manuals for this stuff, so it was like designing your own model or LEGO set," Joel said of learning to work with the foam boards."I learned how to make round shapes by using thinner foam that can be bent around a shape," Joel said. It's how he was able to make Ollivanders wand shop, pictured above.The foam boards are sturdier than cardboard, but they can still be harmed by weather."We have to really secure the structures up and down the driveway because if there is wind, they can become unstable," Joel explained.Each of the graves features a signifier of that character, making them seem more authentic.The team puts a lot of effort into the details of the decorations overall, like adding flying brooms in the trees and hiding secret Death Eater dark marks throughout the display, much like "hidden Mickeys" being sprinkled throughout Disney World.For instance, this construction is an ode to "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone," as it references the scene in which the Dursleys' house floods with Harry's Hogwarts letters.Building the train was was time-consuming because Joel had no instruction manual from which to base his designs. Although Joel said it ended up taking two months to create, he said he was grateful for the learning process."I call it negative know-how — I've screwed up so many times that I now know what works.""People don't know this yet, but I built a compartment in it that holds a wireless speaker and found a sound file of the actual bus' engine," he told Insider, allowing him to make it seem like the bus is actually running when you walk up to it.The bus, which was first shown in "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," can also actually roll, making it even more lifelike."It is just so damn good," Joel said, speaking of the detailed dragon. The mythical creature was featured in "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.""The eyes light up a wonderful purple-violet color, the mouth is flickering red, with smoke pouring out," Joel said.Joel also told Insider the dragon's name is listed on his collar for added fun. "I think it lets everyone escape for a few minutes into this wonderful world JK Rowling created," Joel said of its popularity."So many connect with the story and characters, and it reaches so many different generations," he explained. "Harry Potter fans are next level in the dedication."Joel also thinks the community experience it offers is something people crave. "Everyone is welcome here."The Paces' Diagon Alley display is open to visitors on October 31 from 5 p.m. CT to 10 p.m. and November 1 and 2 from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.You can learn more about the display on the Paces' Facebook page.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
