
						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.					X
					
			Trending:		During high winds, a fencepost casts embers over a vineyard as the Kincade Fire burns in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct 27, 2019. (AP Photo/Noah Berger)Firefighters discuss how to approach the scene as a home burns near grape vines during the Kincade fire in Healdsburg, California on October 27, 2019. - Powerful winds were fanning wildfires in northern California in "potentially historic fire" conditions, authorities said October 27, as tens of thousands of people were ordered to evacuate and sweeping power cuts began in the US state. (Photo by Josh Edelson / AFP) (Photo by JOSH EDELSON/AFP via Getty Images)Soda Rock Winery on Highway 128 goes up in flames after the Kincade Fire raged into the Alexander Valley, Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019, east of Geyserville, Calif. The winery recently celebrated a 150th anniversary. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)Firefighters survey Soda Rock Winery as it begins to burn during the Kincade fire in Healdsburg, California on October 27, 2019. - Powerful winds were fanning wildfires in northern California in "potentially historic fire" conditions, authorities said October 27, as tens of thousands of people were ordered to evacuate and sweeping power cuts began in the US state. (Photo by Josh Edelson / AFP) (Photo by JOSH EDELSON/AFP via Getty Images)Victoria Bramhall and her dog Harold, of Sebastopol, take a break outside the gate at the Petaluma Fairgrounds in Petaluma, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019. The fairgrounds is being used as a shelter for people evacuated from the Kincade Fire. (Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group)Paz Delrescate, of Windsor, Travis Runyon, and Clementine Darling, of the Clementine Darling band, jam at the Petaluma Fairgrounds in Petaluma, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019. Darling lost her home in the 2017 Tubbs Fire and has been living in her van. The fairgrounds is being used as a shelter for people evacuated from the Kincade Fire. (Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group)A fence burns in front of a vineyard as the Kincade Fire burns in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct 27, 2019. (AP Photo/Noah Berger)Jordan Loveland and Logan DeFranchi open a gate at the Oak RIdge Angus Ranch as the Kincade Fire rages Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019, on Highway 128 in the Alexander Valley east of Geyserville, Calif. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)A home on the Soda Rock Winery property burns along State Highway 128 as the Kincade Fire pushed by strong winds jumped the highway  in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)A young boy plays with his soccer ball at the Petaluma Fairgrounds in this view from outside the gate in Petaluma, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019. The fairgrounds is being used as a shelter for people evacuated from the Kincade Fire. (Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group)A home on the Soda Rock Winery property burns along State Highway 128 as the Kincade Fire pushed by strong winds jumped the highway  in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)A family waits outside the gate at the Petaluma Fairgrounds in Petaluma, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019. The fairgrounds is being used as a shelter for people evacuated from the Kincade Fire. (Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group)A shack burns along Chalk Hill Road as the Kincade Fire pushed by strong winds jumped southwest over State Route 128 in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)People hang out on their tailgate at the Petaluma Fairgrounds in Petaluma, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019. The fairgrounds is being used as a shelter for people evacuated from the Kincade Fire. (Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group)A home on the Soda Rock Winery property burns along State Highway 128 as the Kincade Fire pushed by strong winds jumped the highway  in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)The Soda Rock Winery burns as embers from the Kincade Fire were thrown onto the property by extreme winds, causing a terribly destructive spot fire early Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019. (Joseph Geha/Bay Area News Group)The Soda Rock Winery burns as embers from the Kincade Fire were thrown onto the property by extreme winds, causing a terribly destructive spot fire early Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019. (Joseph Geha/Bay Area News Group)(Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)A shack burns along Chalk Hill Road as the Kincade Fire pushed by strong winds jumped southwest over State Route 128 in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)The Soda Rock Winery burns as embers from the Kincade Fire were thrown onto the property by extreme winds, causing a terribly destructive spot fire early Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019. (Joseph Geha/Bay Area News Group)A welcome sign fashioned out of a wine barrel burns at  Soda Rock Winery in Sonoma County's Alexander Valley early Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019. (Joseph Geha/Bay Area News Group)The Kincade Fire jumps to life during high winds early Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019, burning in the Alexander Valley east of Geyserville, Calif. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA - OCTOBER 27: A Cal Fire firefighter crew works to protect a structure as the Kincade Fire threatens along Chalk Hill Road in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 27: Jordan Loveland and Logan DeFranchi open a gate at the Oak RIdge Angus Ranch as the Kincade Fire rages Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019, on Highway 128 in the Alexander Valley east of Geyserville, Calif. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA - OCTOBER 27: A Cal Fire firefighter crew works to protect a structure as the Kincade Fire threatens along Chalk Hill Road in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)A caravan of ambulances drives towards Sutter Santa Rosa Regional Hospital which began an orderly evacuation of patients in Santa Rosa Calif., on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019. The hospital is in a mandatory evacuations area due to the Kincade Fire.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA - OCTOBER 27: A Cal Fire firefighter watches over a structure as the Kincade Fire threatens along Chalk Hill Road in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)Sutter Santa Rosa Regional Hospital began an orderly evacuation of patients in Santa Rosa Calif., on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019. The hospital is in a mandatory evacuations area due to the Kincade Fire.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 27: The Kinkade Fire crests a ridge in the Alexander Valley as it makes a run fueled by high winds, Sunday morning, Oct. 27, 2019, on Highway 128 ieast of Geyserville, Calif. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)Santa Rosa, CA - OCTOBER 26: As one ambulance leaves another arrives to Sutter Santa Rosa Regional Hospital which began an orderly evacuation of patients in Santa Rosa Calif., on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019. The hospital is in a mandatory evacuations area due to the Kincade Fire.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA - OCTOBER 27: The Kincade Fire threatens a structure along Chalk Hill Road in Healdsburg, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: Starry skies watch over a glowing Kincade Fire late Saturday night, Oct. 26, 2019, as the winds remain calm in Geyserville, Calif. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)Chrissy Pierce of Windsor, Calif., puts the last of her family's belongings as she prepares to evacuate from the threat of the Kincade Fire, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019. The entire communities of Healdsburg and Windsor were ordered to evacuate ahead of strong winds that could lead to erratic fire behavior near the blaze burning in wine country. The Sonoma County Sheriff's Office said it would be the biggest evacuation in the county in more than 25 years. (Kent Porter/The Press Democrat via AP)The Raven Theater marquee, illuminated with a flashlight, is seen advertising currently planned performances Saturday night in the evacuated town of Healdsburg. (Joseph Geha/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA -  OCT. 26: Danielle Elins helps Sandy Erickson evacuate some items from her art gallery in Healdsburg, Saturday morning, Oct. 26, 2019, after authorities issued a mandatory evacuation order due to the nearby Kincade Fire and the approaching wind storm. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)A view of smoke and power lines near the Petaluma Fairgrounds in Petaluma, Calif., on Sunday, Oct. 27, 2019. The fairgrounds is being used as a shelter for people evacuated from the Kincade Fire. (Jane Tyska/Bay Area News Group)Santa Rosa, CA - OCTOBER 26: Dozens of ambulances are parked at Sutter Santa Rosa Regional Hospital which began an orderly evacuation of patients in Santa Rosa Calif., on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019. The hospital is in a mandatory evacuations area due to the Kincade Fire.  (Anda Chu/Bay Area News Group)Sandy Beddow evacuates with her cat as a wildfire called the Kincade Fire burns nearby on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, in Healdsburg, Calif. Authorities issued evacuation orders for the town Saturday morning as the region braces for predicted strong, dry winds Saturday evening. (AP Photo/Noah Berger)WINDSOR, CA - OCTOBER 26: Ray Gaitan Sr. carries a photo of him and his wife as he evacuates in anticipation of the expected wind event on October 26, 2019 in Windsor, California. More than 44,000 residents were ordered to evacuate in the wake of the Kincade Fire as more than 2,000 firefighters continues to battle the fire before winds up to 80 miles per hour are forecasted in Sonoma County north of San Francisco. (Photo by Stephen Lam/Getty Images)Barbara Sereni helps a neighbor evacuate her dog as a wildfire called the Kincade Fire burns nearby on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, in Healdsburg, Calif. (AP Photo/Noah Berger)A Healdsburg police officer stands guard Saturday night at the intersection of Healdsburg and Exchange avenues, preventing anyone from entering the town, which was under a mandatory evacuation order. (Joseph Geha/Bay Area News Group)Mike Gibson and his girlfriend lift a cabinet as they evacuate from their home in the Lakewood Hills neighborhood, during mandatory evacuations due to predicted danger from the Kincade Fire, in Windsor, Calif., on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019. The entire communities of Healdsburg and Windsor were ordered to evacuate ahead of strong winds that could lead to erratic fire behavior near the blaze burning in wine country.
 (Darryl Bush/The Press Democrat via AP)HEALDSBURG, CA -  OCT. 26: Healdsburg residents begin evacuating late Saturday morning, Oct. 26, 2019, after authorities issued a mandatory evacuation order due to the nearby Kincade Fire and the approaching wind storm. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA -  OCT. 26: Police Chief Kevin Burke works to evacuate  11,000 residents from Healdsburg, Calif., Saturday morning, Oct. 26, 2019, after a mandatory evacuation order was given due to the nearby Kincade Fire and the approaching wind storm. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: A Santa Clara County Fire strike team listens to Battalion Chief Matt Brown during a briefing before deploying, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, into the battle against the Kincade Fire. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: A Santa Clara County Fire strike team arrives, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, to rejoin the fight against the Kincade Fire. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA -  OCT. 26: Police Chief Kevin Burke works to evacuate  11,000 residents from Healdsburg, Calif., Saturday morning, Oct. 26, 2019, after a mandatory evacuation order was given due to the nearby Kincade Fire and the approaching wind storm. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA -  OCT. 26: A property owner in Healdsburg, Calif., leaves a message for any potential looters after the town was evacuated, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, due to a growing threat from the Kincade Fire. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)HEALDSBURG, CA -  OCT. 26: Danielle Elins helps Sandy Erickson as she locks up her art gallery in Healdsburg, Saturday morning, Oct. 26, 2019, after authorities issued a mandatory evacuation order due to the nearby Kincade Fire and the approaching wind storm. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: A Santa Clara County Fire strike team listens to Battalion Chief Matt Brown during a briefing before deploying, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, into the battle against the Kincade Fire. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)Kelly Patterson closes down the Red Cross evacuation center at the Healdsburg Community Center Saturday afternoon it was ordered evacuated amid the growing Kincade Fire. (Karl Mondon/ Bay Area News Group)Traffic is backed up heading South on Highway 101 during mandatory evacuations due to predicted danger from the Kincade Fire, in Windsor, Calif., on Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019. The entire communities of Healdsburg and Windsor were ordered to evacuate ahead of strong winds that could lead to erratic fire behavior near the blaze burning in wine country. (Darryl Bush/The Press Democrat via AP)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: A Santa Clara County Fire strike team enters the Geysers geothermal facility, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, to rejoin the fight against the Kincade Fire. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)WINDSOR, CA - OCTOBER 26: Jose Perez waters his lawn as he prepares to evacuate from his home in anticipation of the expected wind event on October 26, 2019 in Windsor, California. More than 44,000 residents were ordered to evacuate in the wake of the Kincade Fire as more than 2,000 firefighters continue to battle the fire before winds of up to 80 miles per hour are forecasted in Sonoma County north of San Francisco. (Photo by Stephen Lam/Getty Images)WINDSOR, CA - OCTOBER 26: A cat roams a neighborhood as residents evacuate from their homes in anticipation of the expected wind event on October 26, 2019 in Windsor, California. More than 44,000 residents were ordered to evacuate in the wake of the Kincade Fire as more than 2,000 firefighters continues to battle the fire before winds up to 80 per hours are forecasted in Sonoma County north of San Francisco. (Photo by Stephen Lam/Getty Images)A case of water sits on an empty shelf inside Target on October 26, 2019 in Rohnert Park, California. More than 44,000 residents were ordered to evacuate in the wake of the Kincade Fire as more than 2,000 firefighters continue to battle the fire before winds of up to 80 miles per hour are forecasted in Sonoma County north of San Francisco. (Photo by Stephen Lam/Getty Images)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: Santa Clara County firefighter Ashley Hann listens to a briefing before deploying, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, into the battle against the Kincade Fire. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)WINDSOR, CA - OCTOBER 26: Vehicles travel South along Highway 101 as residents evacuate towns and cities in anticipation of the expected wind event on October 26, 2019 in Windsor, California. More than 44,000 residents were ordered to evacuate in the wake of the Kincade Fire as more than 2,000 firefighters continue to battle the fire before winds of up to 80 miles per hour are forecasted in Sonoma County north of San Francisco. (Photo by Stephen Lam/Getty Images)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: A blood sun rises behind a charred forest, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, as the fourth day of the Kincade Fire burns. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: Bryan Tedrick's horse sculpture stands guard outside evacuated Geyserville, Calif., as the fourth day of the Kincade Fire produces a smokey sunrise, Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019. The sculpture was under construction in 2017 when the artist's worksite was threatened by the Nuns Fire. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 25: As traffic streaks by on Highway 101, the Kincade Fire glows in the mountains east of Geyserville, Calif., Friday, Oct. 25, 2019, where it has burned 24,000 acres. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA - OCTOBER 25: Lena Vavrinec, of Healdsburg, a foreign exchange student from Germany, right, is illuminated by her phone as she takes a photo of the Kincade Fire with high school friends in Healdsburg, Calif., on Friday, Oct. 25, 2019. Some residents parked along Highway 128 to take photos of the burning fire. (Doug Duran/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA -  OCT. 26: The deserted streets of Geyserville, Calif., wake up to a smokey sunrise Saturday, Oct. 26, 2019, as the Kincade Fire continues threatening the town for the fourth day. (Karl Mondon/Bay Area News Group)GEYSERVILLE, CA - OCTOBER 25: The Kincade Fire burns on the hills near Pine Flats Road in Healdsburg, Calif., on Friday, Oct. 25, 2019. (Doug Duran/Bay Area News Group)CLICK HERE if you are having a problem viewing the photos or video on a mobile deviceSANTA ROSA — Fierce winds drove across Sonoma County Sunday, pushing the massive Kincade Fire farther south into the wine region as authorities ordered thousands of additional residents to evacuate and get out of the path of the rapidly-moving wildfire.Late Sunday afternoon, fire officials said the blaze had grown to more than 54,000 acres, and containment had slipped to 5 percent as of 10:00 p.m. as firefighters struggled to control the flames. No fatalities have been reported by CalFire. Ninety-four structures have been destroyed.At 10 p.m. the fire was moving toward the communities of Larkfield and Wikiup north of Santa Rosa, where manditory evacuations were ordered. Roughly 8,000 people live in the area,“Evacuate Now!” Sonoma County officals said in a statement posted at 9:51 p.m.Two fire fighters were injured Sunday, one seriously, officials said. That firefigther was airlifted to UC Davis Medical Center with burns.Earlier Sunday, California Gov. Gavin Newsom declared a statewide emergency, saying California would be “deploying every resource available” to battle the blaze and aid the thousands of affected residents.In the largest evacuation issued in Sonoma County history, more than 180,000 residents have been ordered to flee the area. Just before 2 p.m., emergency vehicles were racing through the town of Windsor, warning everyone to evacuate immediately. And officials added a warning for residents in Calistoga, in Napa County, telling them that they should be prepared to flee with an ominous plume of smoke looming over the horizon to the north.10/27 at 1:45 PM If you are in Windsor in the area of Hembree Lane at Vinecrest Road, leave NOW!!  It is smoky and windy and there's an immediate threat of fire. #KincadeFire— Sonoma Sheriff (@sonomasheriff) October 27, 2019Sonoma County Sheriff Mark Essick said at a news conference Sunday evening that one person had been arrested for entering an evacuated area after he could not explain to deputies why he was there. Essick said there had been no reports of looting and that deputies are patroling evacuation zones.“There’s a lot of fear out there,” Essick said. He defended decisions to order mass evacuations, saying they were the right thing to do in the face of a massive fire and unpredictable high winds.In a residential area of Windsor Sunday afternoon, dozens of sheriff’s cars circled cul-de-sacs with their sirens blaring and lights flashing, urging residents through blaring loudspeakers to leave immediately.The neighborhood, sitting just east of Highway 101 and consumed by a rusty grey sky and tiny flakes of ash floating in the air, appeared almost post-apocalyptic. The few residents who had stayed behind until that point quickly drove south out of the subdivision, while fire and police trucks continued back toward the flames and smoke engulfing the skies.No injuries caused by the growing fire have been reported so far, though 94 structures were reportedly destroyed, including at least 31 homes, and 17 structures damaged. Officials say nearly 23,500 structures are considered threatened by the fire.“We’re in a little bit of a defensive position with Mother Nature at the moment,” CalFire Division Chief Jonathan Cox said during a press conference Sunday morning, adding that he doesn’t expect to fully contain the fire until Nov. 7.Peak wind gusts of 93 miles per hour were recorded at about 6 a.m. Sunday morning in the Healdsburg Hills north of the towns of Healdsburg and Windsor — aiding the expansion of the fire and igniting several spot fires as embers blew ahead of the primary blaze.“It’s the strongest winds that we’ve seen in quite some time,” National Weather Service meteorologist Anna Schneider said. “And the fire has spread quite a bit overnight as a result of those winds.”Bursts of winds up to 85 miles per hour were expected to keep blowing until mid-Sunday morning before briefly picking up again in the evening.National Weather Service meteorologist Steve Anderson said a wind gust of 103 mph at the Pine Flat remote station near Geyserville was not considered a true reading.“We’ve determined that the fire was bearing down on the site at that time,” Anderson said Sunday evening. “It was more a factor of fire-induced wind and not really the true offshore wind component that was affecting the entire region. So even though it had the gust, we don’t consider it a true wind gust in that area.”At the time of the gust around 8 a.m. Sunday, Anderson said flames from a branch of the Kincade fire were passing under the weather service’s remote station. “It’s a PG&E site, and they’re all are on top of their power poles. In this case, on top of one of those large metal structures, it’s quite high. The fire just burned underneath it.”Winds are expected to die down slightly before picking up again from 8 p.m. Sunday through 2 a.m. Monday, Anderson saidHumidity remains dangerously low, officials said.Dealing with the peak of the wind event Sunday morning, Cal Fire officials say one of their biggest concerns is the possibility of the fire jumping to the west of Highway 101.“If anything does start on the opposite side of 101, the western side, that area hasn’t seen any fire history since the 1940s,” said fire behavior analyst Steve Volmer.He said if that does happen, it could be catastrophic since the area is filled with dense, old and dry vegetation that would quickly go up in flames.To prepare and due to a lack of visibility from smoke, officials have closed Highway 101 north of Santa Rosa — from Arata Lane in Windsor to Dry Creek Road in Healdsburg.Flames sprang up overnight on the west side of Highway 128 in the Alexander Valley, tearing through several storied wineries as violent winds whipped grapevines, signposts, and trees, filling the roadway with debris.The tasting room and main building of the Soda Rock Winery caught fire around 3 a.m., and was fully engulfed by flames within an hour, filling the air with percussive booms as the fire ripped through the structure and blew out its windows.“The wind has pushed the fire through the building,” said Rhett Pratt, a Fresno Fire Department firefighter who is serving as a Cal Fire spokesperson for the Kincade Fire. “Like any fire does when you blow on it, it increases in speed and intensity.”Bracing for the vicious winds they accurately predicted would fuel the wildfire, Sonoma County officials had earlier urged residents in evacuation zones, stretching from the inland foothills to the coast, to leave their homes while there was still time.Map: For the latest fire and evacuation zone information in Sonoma County click here. “We have a lot of work on our hands, and we’re not going door-to-door dragging people out,” Sheriff Mark Essick said at a Saturday evening news conference. “It truly is a selfish act to stay home.”In all, more than 180,000 people have been ordered to evacuate from the fire zone. The mandatory evacuation areas now include Dry Creek Valley, including the upper portion of Westside Road and Mill Creek Road; Larkfield and the Mark West Drainage; and all areas west of Healdsburg and Windsor, throughout the Russian River Valley to Bodega Bay.The evacuations were expanded again early Sunday to include most of Santa Rosa, as well as Sebastopol, Bloomfield and Valley Ford, and all areas west of Fulton Road, Llano Road, and Pepper Road to the Marin County line. The area included the Coffey Park and Fountaingrove neighborhoods that were ravaged by the 2017 Tubbs Fire.At about 1 p.m. Sunday, Cal Fire issued an evacuation advisory for certain areas of Napa County, serving as precautionary notice to give the residents time to prepare for a possible evacuation.The evacuation warning covers residents in the City of Calistoga and surrounding areas, including those north of Diamond Mountain Road to Dunaweal Lane, east of the Sonoma County line, west of Pickett Road and south of the Lake County line. This advisory includes Oat Hill Road and Livermore Road at the Napa and Lake County line.About 400 people were staying at shelters at the Santa Rosa fairgrounds as of Sunday morning, with a steady stream of evacuees arriving all night, a volunteer with the Red Cross said.At one shelter for evacuees with pets, people stretched out on cots as dogs ran around and one man carried a bird inside. Down the road, dozens of horses looked out from red stables.Linda Chase, 72, who fled her Santa Rosa neighborhood last night with her black cat, Kitty Boy, said it seemed like her neighbors were taking the evacuation orders seriously — a sign of the trauma the city still feels from the 2017 Tubbs Fire.“When it was time to go, the garage doors came up,” Chase said, as she sat outside the shelter with Kitty Boy in a cage next to her. “I just hope we don’t have to keep doing this every other year.”We are providing free access to this article. Please consider supporting local journalism like this by purchasing a subscription. Click here for our 99-cent, 1-month trial offer.Cal Fire analyst Steven Volmer said computer modeling predicted “dangerous rates of spread,” and “very high flame lengths.”“We’re going to see those rates increase dramatically, and the fire behavior increase dramatically,” he said.Cox added that fire lines have been dug as part of an “aggressive assault on the ground to build containment line for the anticipated wind event.”Cal Fire division chief Jonathan Cox emphasized, as others have, that those who do not heed evacuation calls are endangering themselves and the first responders who will be dispatched to rescue them. He noted that even the more than 2,800 well-equipped firefighters will be significantly hampered by a blaze that may be whipped around by wind gusts of up to 80 mph.“The fire intensity has the potential to overwhelm even the professionals,” Cox said.In issuing evacuation warnings for Santa Rosa and other areas hard hit by the Tubbs Fire, Essick referred to what happened two years ago as a reason to take the warnings seriously:“In October 2017, we lost 24 lives in Sonoma County because we didn’t have a warning. We now have a warning … You cannot fight this. Please evacuate. If you are under an evacuation order, you must leave.”County supervisor David Rabbitt joined in the chorus.“This event, unlike in 2017, we have had, and continue to have time,” he said. “Evacuations are not suggestions. If you are in the evacuation zone, you are in the path of danger.”Officials at Sutter Santa Rosa Regional Hospital heeded that call and were clearing out the facility Saturday night after the latest orders placed them at the edge of a mandatory evacuation zone. The hospital was forced to do the same two years ago with the Tubbs Fire bearing down.Hospital spokesperson Shaun Ralston said 97 patients were being evacuated, including eight babies being treated in the neonatal intensive care unit.“They’re all relatively healthy,” Ralston said of the infants.Kaiser Permanente in Santa Rosa started a voluntary evacuation Saturday night, transferring approximately 110 patients to other area hospitals, before it received a mandatory evacuation notice early Sunday and moved its remaining patients.In a darkened cul-de-sac within sight of the hospital, 64-year-old Gary White was the last resident remaining at Mark West Village, a subdivision built a year ago in the wake of the Tubbs Fire. White considers himself the “unofficial” mayor of the development and said he wanted to ensure his neighbors were evacuated safely before he headed out.By 10 p.m. Saturday, that time had come, just as deputies were driving through, horns blaring, to get people to leave the area.“It’s a pretty weird night,” White said. “I lived through the Tubbs Fire and I wanted to protect my neighbors.”Not far from there, the Sheriff’s Office had been transporting inmates at its secondary jail, the North County Detention Facility south of Windsor, 90 miles south to Alameda County’s Santa Rita Jail in Dublin.All inmates at the North County Detention Facility in Santa Rosa have been evacuated and are being safely housed in Alameda County.— Sonoma Sheriff (@sonomasheriff) October 27, 2019Essick said everyone in Healdsburg and 95 percent in Windsor received evacuation notifications. All who could be seen in Healdsburg were local police patrolling the streets, buoyed by patrol units sent up from agencies, including San Francisco and San Bruno.The searing memory of the 2017 Wine Country Fires are interwoven with the efforts to move people out of the fire’s way.“We are taking extreme precautions and making aggressive evacuation decisions based on the forecast. We are providing defense for communities that may be impacted,” Cox said. “It’s only successful if the public who are asked to evacuate leave the area.”Pat Sherman, 68, and her husband Craig Allison, 67, who’ve lived in Windsor together for 20 years, arrived in the parking lot of the Petaluma Memorial Veterans Hall shelter Saturday afternoon, where they planned to stay during the evacuation.The couple has three large dogs — Keith, Ronnie, and Cookie — and said they might sleep in the car Saturday night as the space for pets in the hall seemed limited. They tried unsuccessfully to rent a room at a motel in Santa Rosa, as a manager told them there was a two-dog limit. The couple evacuated as a precaution during the Tubbs Fire.“Hoping it remains,” Allison said of his home. “I like to pre-visualize about pulling back into the driveway.”“I could put on a happy face, it’s very easy,” Sherman said. “But when it comes down to it, I could lose my home, my memories of my parents, everybody. And you can’t bring that back.”Check back for updates to this story.Staff writer Nico Savidge and George Kelly contributed to this report. Get Morning Report and other email newsletters