Elon Musk, right, unveils his austere, hard steel Tesla Cybertruck and an electric ATV in Los ... [+] Angeles on Nov. 21.Elon Musk has reinvented the pickup for the 21st century as an austere, hard-edged electric beast. It’s going to look cool in future “Terminator” movies and draw open-mouth gapes rolling through tony neighborhoods in Los Angeles or Silicon Valley. It’s also unlikely to be a volume challenger to full-size trucks from Ford, GM and FiatChrysler in the near term, if ever.The Cybertruck that rolled on stage late Thursday to a packed hall filled with Tesla fans in suburban Los Angeles is definitely a new spin on the top-selling vehicles in the U.S. that Musk said “have been the same for 100 years.” But rather than going for a more modest reinvention in styling, on the lines of startup Rivian’s R1T electric truck, Tesla decided that a very polarizing design, clad in cold-rolled stainless steel, was the right approach. “It doesn’t look like anything else,” Musk said as several members of the Tesla design team scrambled out of the vehicle, dressed in black leather and looking like extras in a Mad Max film. Inspiration for the vehicle’s spare design was to create a mix between a truck and a stealth fighter jet, apparently. “We were able to make the skin out of ultra-hard stainless steel. Really hard.”Franz von Holzhaussen, Tesla’s chief designer, demonstrated how tough that exterior was by hitting the front driver door with a sledgehammer that appeared to do no damage. The vehicle also has glass that Musk said was similarly super strong, though a demonstration to prove that didn’t go as well. Von Holzhaussen severely damaged both front and rear passenger windows when he threw a hard steel ball at them.“We’ll fix it in post,” Musk quipped, after appearing to curse at the mishap.A test to show off the super-strong glass on Tesla's new Cybertruck didn't go exactly as planned.On the plus side, the base price starts at just $39,900, ranging up to $69,900 for a bigger battery and to get maximum towing capacity of 14,000 pounds. The base version will go 250 miles per charge, while the top-end variant gets double that. Musk said Tesla has started taking deposits for the vehicle. Still, he wasn’t clear on precisely when deliveries are likely to begin. Also, there was no mention of where the vehicle will be built. “The Tesla truck is certainly unique,” said Akshay Anand, executive analyst at Kelley Blue Book. “It may not appeal to traditional needs-based buyers, but some of its performance and utility features combined with the design may appeal to wants based buyers who want something radically different.”Its starting price should also attract buyers in the electric truck market, he said. “As always, quality and production will be something of keen interest once the vehicle gets closer to launch.”The curious vehicle is something the sci-fi loving Musk has wanted Tesla to do for years, and a passion project reflecting his personal vision. “I do zero market research whatsoever,” he told an audience at a conference for space entrepreneurs in San Francisco this month. “If you don’t love the product, you should not expect that others will.”A person places items into the front trunk cargo area of the Rivian R1T electric pickup truck during ... [+] a demonstration at a reveal event at AutoMobility LA.U.S. sales of full-size pickups, the world’s primary market for such vehicles, surpass 2 million units annually, and volume leaders Ford, GM and FiatChrysler’s Ram battle to retain buyer loyalty and bragging rights in a space where median prices approach $50,000. Rivian has positioned its vehicle as a premium, lifestyle brand with a $69,000 base price.The Cybertruck’s range and towing capacity will give it credibility in the pickup space, and the specs laid out by Musk exceed those of the R1T from Amazon-backed startup Rivian that was unveiled a year ago, also in Los Angeles. Its truck will deliver up to 400 miles of driving range per charge, have the ability to haul up to 11,000 pounds and offer clever new types of storage. Shortly after the Cybertruck’s debut one automotive wag tweeted “PREDICTION: @Rivian will sell a lot of trucks.”Alex Roy via TwitterWhile Tesla’s pickup will undoubtedly attract unconventional buyers who want a very edgy vehicle, the styling of the Rivian model, which starts at about $69,000, may appeal to a broader segment of truck customers willing to try an electric variant. Ford and GM also have battery-powered pickups in the works, though neither company has revealed them. “Styling is polarizing to say the least,” said Matt DeLorenzo, senior executive editor at Kelley Blue Book. “It will probably appeal to those who never owned a pickup, but as far as traditional truck owners, it might not be as attractive. It will be a niche product at best and poses no threat in the pickup market as we know it today.” Cybertruck interiorFrom Los Angeles, the U.S. capital of cars and congestion, I try to make sense of technology-driven changes reshaping transportation, cities and how we get around. I've ...