On Thursday evening, Elon Musk unveiled Tesla's Cybertruck, a futuristic vehicle that looks like a cross between a stealth fighter and the DeLorean from Back To The Future. The new vehicle is made of cold-rolled steel, with adaptive air suspension and armoured glass that, perhaps embarrassingly, cracked during a demonstration. The vehicle is supposed to be bulletproof to a 9-millimeter handgun though the reasoning behind the move isn't quite clear yet. Tesla is going to sell three versions of the pickup truck and the cheapest will cost $39,900 with a 7,500 pound towing capacity along with a 250-mile range. The most expensive variant of the vehicle will cost $69,900, boast a 14,000 pound towing capacity and a range of around 500 miles. Even though Elon Musk has wanted to develop an all-electric pickup truck for some time, Tesla is certainly entering uncharted territory by diving into this market. The level of demand for an electric pickup truck is as of yet unclear but Tesla is clearly hoping the futuristic intimidating armoured look of its creation will sway some minds and convince consumers to take the plunge. During the unveiling event, Musk said that "we need sustainable energy now. If we don't have a pickup truck, we can't solve it. The top 3 selling vehicles in America are pickup trucks. To solve sustainable energy, we have to have a pickup truck". So what's Tesla's Cybertruck going to be up against in America's competitive pickup market? Pickup trucks make up about 15% of U.S. vehicle sales with Americans buying around a million each year. Successful vehicles can net an impressive profit and Reuters reported that General Motors makes an average of $17,000 per pickup with the margin even higher for more sophisticated models. As the following infographic shows, Tesla will have quite a job on its hands to real in the market's most popular models. So far this year (January to September), the Ford F-Series sold 662,574 units according to website GoodCarBadCar.net, while the ever-popular Dodge Ram sold 461,115. The Chevrolet Silverado has proven the third most popular with 412,258 vehicles sold. Even though the pickup truck market should be an extremely tough nut to crack, the company has proven that anything is possible in recent years. An example includes the success of the Model 3 which has taken the U.S. luxury car market by storm. In the third quarter of 2019, the Model 3 sold 43,000 units, ahead of the second-placed Lexus ES which sold 13,916, according to CleanTechnica. Despite the uncertainty, some things are definitely going to go in Tesla's favor. One of them is moves among its new competitors to develop their own electric pickups with Ford making an all-electric F-150 and General Motors stating it will bring an electric pickup to the market in 2021. Another is the ever-improving financial situation for Tesla, which means that if demand for the Cybertruck collapses, that failure will be far easier to absorb. *Click below to enlarge (charted by Statista)U.S. sales of new pickup trucks in 2019 (January-September) I am a Statista data journalist, covering technological, societal and media topics through visual representation. In fact, I love to write about all trending topics, ill...