by Surur@mspoweruserTesla is announcing their new truck today at 11 PM ET (4 AM UK time), finally ending the mystery of the design of the vehicle.There are still a few hours of speculation left, however, and Elon Musk loves nothing more than to tease us.In his latest tweet he notes:Tesla Cybertruck (pressurized edition) will be official truck of Mars— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 21, 2019While this may not appear to reveal much, there has been speculation that Musk has been hiding the design of the Cybertruck in plain sight, in a render of Elon’s Mars base published some time ago.In the foreground of the base we can see some kind of vehicle, which looks like this when zoomed in:Musk had earlier said the truck will look like an “armoured personnel carrier from the future” and the vehicle pictures certainly fits the bill.Tesla also tweeted this video, which shows the profile of the vehicle, which matches the Mars truck above.Cybertruck Unveil starts at 8Stay tuned for livestream pic.twitter.com/zrbsoKKLd7— Tesla (@Tesla) November 21, 2019In another tweet, he said “Cybertruck design influenced partly by The Spy Who Loved Me,” tweeting a video of James Bond’s amphibious car with its iconic angular design.Of course, such a design will probably have very few fans, but Musk had said: “if there’s only a small number of people that like that truck, I guess we’ll make a more conventional truck in the future.”Telsa has confirmed that the truck will be called “CYBRTRK”, following a trademark filed by Tesla on the 6th November being discovered. CYBRTRK.com redirects to Tesla.com at present.  He has also said it will feature a 400-500 mile range, dual-motor all-wheel-drive drive train and dynamic suspension, and “300,000 lbs of towing capacity,” and will cost less than $50,000 and “be better than a Ford F150.”Musk promised their truck would be “a better sports car than a standard Porsche 911”, as well as a “better truck than a Ford F-150 in terms of truck-like functionality.”The Tesla Cybertruck Launch will be in Los Angeles near the SpaceX rocket factory, and the event will be live-streamed. Keep an eye on the site for news on the full reveal.by Surur on November 21, 2019by Rahulby Rahulby Sururby AnmolApple recently launched the new Apple AirPods Pro for $250, but surprisingly it is already possible to grab a pair at a considerable discount. The AirPods Pro features Active Noise Cancellat...In September Amazon announced a slew of devices that expands all nooks and crannies of the Amazon Echo ecosystem, with one of the most popular likely being the Amazon Echo Show 8, for which ...Amazon is not waiting until Black Friday to offer deep iPad Pro discounts at their web store. Today you can get the latest 12.9-inch iPad Pro with 256GB storage for just $949.99, $199.01 off...Dell has released its list of Black Friday deals to help get the holiday shopping season kickstarted. Starting with the easy to throw into a carry-on Dell XPS 13 2-in-1, announced only in Ma...Microsoft is now offering a deal on its Surface Go that’s specially tailored to families with tech-savvy kids. Starting from $440, you can build a “Surface Go Kids Bundle”,...The most interesting mainstream laptop of the last 12 months is still the HP Spectre Folio. Dressed in leather, the high-end laptop can be a tablet, laptop or turn into a presentation tent m...Apple’s Powerbeats Pro with adjustable, secure-fit ear hooks, are on sale for $199.95- down from $249.95, making it a saving of 20%, or $50. The headphones offer up to 12 hours of list...In September, Lenovo announced seven new Yoga 2-in-1 Windows PCs and today the C940 range have become available for purchase. Lenovo made the following updates to Alexa on Yoga PCs: Lock Scr...A bit like the Surface Studio, Microsoft’s Surface Headphones have been universally lauded for its design, which combines both extreme comfort and ease of use. The headphones, which ar...In the run-up to Microsoft’s Surface event next month, Microsoft is running a big sale on the whole Surface range, from the Surface Go to the Surface Book. The Surface Go range is seei...