by Surur@mspoweruserEarlier today Tesla unveiled their new CyberTruck and to say the Tesla Cybertruck design is divisive is an understatement.Â  The vehicle, which is all sharp corners and angles, looks cheap, ugly and unfinished.Watching the official unveiling of the truck has however allowed Elon Musk’s reality distortion field to do its magic on me, and I am now completely sold on the vehicle.In the video, Musk makes it clear that the truck was designed for utility and work, not for mounting the kerb at the shopping mall. Featuring a stainless-steel shell which can not be dented with a sledgehammer and armoured glass, the shell is rather designed to last decades than to look good in the driveway.Air suspension as standard gives the truck best in class 16 inch ground clearance, which means you can drop down low on the freeway and rise to 16-inch clearance off-road.Tesla Cybertruck comes with up to 3,500 pounds and still supports acceleration from 0-60 mph in just 2.9 seconds and up to 500 miles of range.The full specs can be seen in our post here, but more importantly is Elon Musk’s ability to reframe the design from ugly to super-strong and secure, making a joke of Ford F150 owners who are afraid of people scratching their car.Watch the official unveiling below to change how you think about trucks forever.Tesla Cybertruck images:Tesla single motor RWD will start at only $39,900 and can pre-order Tesla Cybertruck here by paying $100 deposit.Read more about the truck that will redefine your aesthetic here.by Surur on November 21, 2019by Rahulby Rahulby Sururby AnmolApple recently launched the new Apple AirPods Pro for $250, but surprisingly it is already possible to grab a pair at a considerable discount. The AirPods Pro features Active Noise Cancellat...In September Amazon announced a slew of devices that expands all nooks and crannies of the Amazon Echo ecosystem, with one of the most popular likely being the Amazon Echo Show 8, for which ...Amazon is not waiting until Black Friday to offer deep iPad Pro discounts at their web store. Today you can get the latest 12.9-inch iPad Pro with 256GB storage for just $949.99, $199.01 off...Dell has released its list of Black Friday deals to help get the holiday shopping season kickstarted. Starting with the easy to throw into a carry-on Dell XPS 13 2-in-1, announced only in Ma...Microsoft is now offering a deal on its Surface Go that’s specially tailored to families with tech-savvy kids. Starting from $440, you can build a “Surface Go Kids Bundle”,...The most interesting mainstream laptop of the last 12 months is still the HP Spectre Folio. Dressed in leather, the high-end laptop can be a tablet, laptop or turn into a presentation tent m...Apple’s Powerbeats Pro with adjustable, secure-fit ear hooks, are on sale for $199.95- down from $249.95, making it a saving of 20%, or $50. The headphones offer up to 12 hours of list...In September, Lenovo announced seven new Yoga 2-in-1 Windows PCs and today the C940 range have become available for purchase. Lenovo made the following updates to Alexa on Yoga PCs: Lock Scr...A bit like the Surface Studio, Microsoft’s Surface Headphones have been universally lauded for its design, which combines both extreme comfort and ease of use. The headphones, which ar...In the run-up to Microsoft’s Surface event next month, Microsoft is running a big sale on the whole Surface range, from the Surface Go to the Surface Book. The Surface Go range is seei...