Taking a moment away from my cheese sandwich, I looked at the countdown. Only four more minutes. Four minutes were all that separated me from Tesla Motors’ live unveiling of Cybertruck. Another bite while I checked my phone messages; just two minutes left now. Dear Lord, was I ready? Needing to calm myself, I poured a glass of cold water, drinking most of it before splashing a bit on my face. Thirty seconds. Things were serious now. Pretty soon, Elon Musk was going to appear and change the face of motoring once again. This will be the automotive announcement by which all others will be measured for weeks.An ominous horn sounded as my screen illuminated to show me a blood-red stage. This was it. It was like they were announcing the first Terminator. Dark music subsided to a rowdy crowd, as a hologram told us we were addicted to oil. The solution? Cybertruck. Fashionable. Functional. Electric.Â Elon Musk walked out on stage like God Himself. Everyone started screaming. Humble, he chatted briefly with the front row.“We need something different,” said after accusing all other truck models to be largely indistinguishable.Then Cybertruck blasted on stage and I couldn’t believe what I saw.Â It was the weirdest non-conceptual vehicle design I’d ever witnessed. The crowd audibly laughed for fifteen seconds and then attempted to rally. “We love it,” a few started to chant. I thought there was no way this could be real and that, in a few seconds, Elon would chuckle and they’d roll out the real thing. But this was Cybertruck. A silver block of cheese.That reminded me to get back to my sandwich as I continued watching. More of a DeLorean pickup, maybe. It’s like someone invented a totally new geometric shape and then told me it was a car before I even had time to count all the sides.I snapped out of it as some Hollywood Guy I didn’t recognize walked up and hit it with a hammer. But not before wailing on a regular truck door, deforming it like the piece of garbage it was. Cybertruck didn’t even flinch when it got hit… though Hollywood Guy didn’t seem to strike it quite so hard.Â However, the point was made. Cybertruck is not body-on-frame. It uses an “ultra-hard, cold-rolled stainless steel exoskeleton,” according to its creator.Then they shot Cybertruck — providing video evidence for the test. The high-speed video clearly showed the 9mm round did not penetrate (perfect for LA traffic). “It is literally bulletproof to a 9mm handgun,” Musk explained beforeÂ comparing normal truck doors to tissue paper. “When you say something’s built tough … that’s what we mean.”Somewhere the ghost of Henry Ford weeps.Cybertruck also doesn’t use normal glass. It uses “Tesla Armor Glass,” which is apparently made out of transparent metal like on the starship Enterprise. They brought two magicians on stage to test it and those unhappy looking wizards gave it their all with dropped ball bearings but it wouldn’t crack. I was genuinely impressed, however, this felt more like I was watching a stage show in Las Vegas than the unveiling of a vehicle in California.From the announcement, I gather that some version of Cybertruck will be able to launch to 60 mph in about 2.9 seconds. The quarter-mile time is claimed to be in the high 10s. It probably won’t be the base but that’s still pretty damn good for anything with wheels.Honestly, this still feels like a put on. The Cybertruck teasers were akin to howÂ Gabbo was promoted on The Simpsons. Nobody knew what to expect and you never stopped hearing about it. The mystery was the story and I’m almost as bewildered and lost now as I was when I went into this experience. Is this brilliant and I’m not seeing it? Where are the windshield wipers and mirrors? I thought this was supposed to be a production vehicle and all I see is a well-polished concept.Am I still recovering from the event’s incredible production quality? What has happened here exactly?I think Cybertruck looks like a prop from a sci-fi film (not in the way Musk wants) and probably won’t function well as a legitimate work vehicle as it’s currently designed. You’ll be able to haul things in it, sure. But those cool lips that help to give it that futuristic profile basically mean you have to go to the very back every time you want to chuck something in or pull something out. And, if that’s going to be the case, why wouldn’t you just get nice boring crossover? I am probably overthinking this. Tesla put on a good show and is probably going to sell bunches of these things.[Images: Tesla Motors]I…Um…I… uh……WowDon’t you buy no ugly truck!I would like to formally apologize to General Motors for criticizing their squared-off wheel openings.This is Elon punking us right?Exactly.This thing is the British verb that rhymes with “thank”.Just because you can doesn’t mean you should.In two years the Bay Area and Seattle are going to be chock-full of these things, all driven by tech bros, all with empty beds, all busy trying to menace everyone else in sight.  That, not traditional truck buyers, is the audience.All while a simple child points and says that the emperor has no clothes.
“Mom what is this ugly thing?”“Tech bros”?Really ? In metro Detroit area I see hundreds of pickup trucks every day during my commute.  95 percent of them have empty beds and are essentially used as an urban cowboy commuter vehicles.  At least the Tesla would be much more fuel efficient although harder on the eyes.umm…huh…mm…yeah. I guess it meets the definition of a truck. I’m not seeing anyway this thing could be built, with the described specs, for $40K.Are you trolling us? I need to go to google, I don’t believe this is legit.Ok what the…I’m just gonna go to bed.I had exactly the same reaction, Ha ha, ok, now show us the real one…What a putz.Man, that interior is just so awesome and inviting, bursting with cues of future pride in ownership. Undentable. I might want double thick stainless steel bench seat bottoms shaped like tractor seats for easy-ridin’ comfort and for protection from the occasional IED found on America’s highways, as I flee my armed pursuers waving 9 mm handguns and wielding Craftsman hammers, leaning out of the windows of an F150 3.5tt Ecoboost with both its turbo’s tongues hanging out in distress. Oh yeah.For $40K, freaks can indulge their fantasies. For $70K, you get the Low Earth Orbit Space-X Edition. The RAM Warlock is now officially toast.What good are bullet-proof doors and windows when you can just walk right through the panel gaps?Nice.I’m sorry, but how can any media actually report Tesla’s claimed pricing as fact, let alone in the headline? It has been definitively proven that any and all pricing data from Tesla is completely unreliable. It could actually be characterised as reliably fraudulent.Jonah, Ruth, Samuel and that chimp are going to have a tough time loading this thing into the back of Ark II.“all I see is a well-polished concept.”I strongly disagree. That is one half-assed concept if not quarter-assed!Seriously, it’s like Elon and one designer (apprentice) started work on that at 10 pm last night.No rear window when that shutter thing on top of the bed is up? And as you pointed out there’s no wipers, mirrors, they didn’t even bothermwith an interior mock-up?Its a ute,underground miners going to love this ute.  as will tradies with valuable power tools. (electricity, compressed air, and stealing resistant tray)  tradies that carry tools in the vehicle,  but materials above the vehicle.As if electric sockets weren’t available in trucks already, and compressed air plus a bed cover would be hard to add on?You find no impracticalities then? Like no rear window when the bed-cover is on? I’m sure there will be a long list…I’ll just keep my 1998 F150 thank you…..Production in late 2022 means that it will certainly change.No doubt it’s a polarizing design, much like a Hummer H1 back in the day.Even though I’m not a truck guy, I prefer to be less visible with my vehicles. This is great news for Rivian.This is incomparable.This has to be a loyalty test for Tesla superfans. They’re just seeing how much they can get away with.Didn’t I see this shape in the original “Total Recall”?See you at the party, Richter.Clearly #theEmperorhasnoclothes.  Mr. Musk (say that 3 times fast!) has no trusted confident that can tell him, wtf!?!  He doesn’t know even ONE sassy black woman.  Is this a publicity stunt & the real truck is hiding behind that other curtain.  I was not a fan of the Rivian when I first saw it but it is growing on me.  I loved Knight Rider, Blue Thunder, & Airwolf but those vehicles need to stay in 1984, where they belong.  So does this abominaiton.It looks like an F-117 NighthawkThis Tesla unveil was originally schedule for April 1st, right?I knew it!  Elon Musk is “Unky Herb” from the Simpsons.  Does the horn play “La Cucaracha”?Powell makes a pow, pow, powerful car.PFFFFFFFFFFFFT. HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA! Did I mention HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!?Woah – I mean woah – it’s like a 1980s flashback of what the future is going to look like.  Which means, being the geek that I am, that part of me likes it.  But… wow.  It is so uh… strange.I feel like I landed in Demolition Man. Denis Leary should be along any minute now in the 442.I disagree, you could easily mount a machine gun in the bed and make a nice technical.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_(vehicle)You must be logged in to post a comment.