Britney Spears has been in the spotlight all her life. After her first single, "Baby One More Time" hit radio airwaves, she quickly became a household name and every girl and guy had her posters hung up on their bedroom walls. Britney is one of the most successful female artists, and yet also one of the most controversial stars in the world. However, despite any negativity that has surrounded Spears she has still managed to shine.Britney has been in the headlines ever since she saw success with her music, whether it had to do with her controversial switch from bubblegum pop to the racy "I'm A Slave 4 U" days, to her 2007 head shave and personal health issues, Britney has been through a lot. However, the ups and downs have not stopped the songstress from releasing a total of nine studio albums throughout her career and her successful Las Vegas residency.Fans have continued to stay loyal to Britney Spears throughout her life growing up in the spotlight. Here are 20 photos of the star and her transformation over the years.Britney Spears began a career in singing and dancing when she showcased her vocals on the entertainment competition show Star Search in 1992. Later, she found herself alongside former NSYNC member Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera on The All-New Mickey Mouse Club when she was 11. These two shows helped Spears gain notoriety and get people talking.Once the Mickey Mouse Club was canceled, Spears got to focus more closely on her budding music career. In the late 90's, the brunette beauty signed with Jive Records and in 1998, she released the most recognized song in the world today; "Baby One More Time." Her first album would hit No.1 on the charts and went on to sell more than 25 million copies worldwide.Britney Spears was becoming a household name after the release of her first album and catchy hits. Her second album, Oops...I Did It Again, which was released in 2000, saw just as much success, selling one million copies in its first week. Spears was easily dubbed the queen of pop at the time, knocking out her songstress competitors like Christina Aguilera and Jessica Simpson.Fans saw a completely different side of Britney Spears when she released her the album Britney, which gave us the song "I'm A Slave 4 U." Her sweet and innocent songs were a thing in the past. "I'd get bored singing the same type of songs all the time," she told Entertainment Weekly, adding, "I still love my old stuff, but you have to extend yourself and grow."All eyes were on Britney after the release of her third album, but she also felt intense scrutiny when she stepped out with NSYNC member Justin Timberlake. Emerging as Hollywood's "It" couple, there was constant rumors about their relationship, and sadly it didn't last long. Once Timberlake released the song, "Cry Me A River" fans all knew this duo was over.Britney returned to her music after her split from Justin Timberlake and shocked fans once more when she and Christina Aguilera shared that famous kiss with Madonna during a performance at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. Spears made headlines after the performance and people were noticing the drastic change in her music and persona.Britney's bubblegum days were just about over at this point and she released yet another album titled, In the Zone, which featured a song with Madonna called, “Me Against the Music.” Her song "Toxic" gained major success off that album and yet again, Britney was on top in the music world.Spears' private life wasn't so private when she began dating and later marrying backup dancer Kevin Federline. In 2005, she announced she was pregnant with her first child, and things only got worse when she was spotted holding her infant son on her lap as she was driving. Britney's parenting skills were a hot topic during this time, but in 2006, she and Federline welcomed a second son.Britney's life was constantly in the tabloids and after her divorce from Federline and things only seemed worse for the star when she shaved her head in a California beauty salon while the paparazzi took photos in February 2007. Despite her downfall, she managed to release the album, Blackout and saw success with her song "Gimme More." Even though Britney appeared to be in a crisis she was able to make a comeback with her album, having it reach number two on the Billboard charts. Britney was dealing with her own personal struggles and it got worse when the media began creating negative stories about Spears' parenting and her health. However, the songstress collected herself and looked to be doing okay after her 2007 shaved head scenario.In 2008, Britney did not look like herself after it looked like she was having another breakdown. The star lost custody of her two children and was seeking professional help. Rumors were circulating about the health of Spears after her father was granted control over her personal, professional and medical matters, according to biography.com.Thankfully, Britney made yet another comeback releasing her sixth album, Circus in 2008. Her song off the album, "Womanizer" was an instant hit and her fans loved the album. In 2011, she proved that she was still the queen of pop when she debuted a seventh album, Femme Fatale which became her sixth No.1 album on the charts. Spears also became a judge on the singing competition The X Factor, but only appeared for one season.With Spears looking like she was back on track, the singer was focusing on her kids and settling down. She told Glamour magazine, "I don't like going out … I love my home and staying in bed and watching Dancing with the Stars or reading a Danielle Steel novel. I'm kind of boring."Britney released her eighth album, Britney Jean in 2013 and explained that it was her "most personal album ever." While it didn't do as great as her other albums, loyal fans still appreciated Spears' commitment to her music. She was also about to land a gig in Las Vegas that would continue her pop legacy.In 2013, Britney announced her two-year residency at Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino in Las Vegas, called Britney: Piece of Me. During that time, Spears performed a total of 100 shows from 2014-2015. She later confirmed that she was extending her residency contract for two more years, while also releasing more music like "Pretty Girls" featuring Iggy Azalea.With all her personal ups and downs, Britney still managed to release yet another album, making it her ninth. Glory was released in the summer of 2016 and Spears returned for the first time since her controversial "Gimme More" performance to the MTV VMA stage alongside rapper G-Eazy. That same year, she was honored with the Billboard Millennium Award at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards.Britney continued to rock the music industry once her residency was over and her Piece of Me tour, which took place in North America and Europe began in 2018. Working hard day and night with her tour, making public appearances, and working with other ventures, (like releasing her 24th perfume), Britney still maintained a killer physique and was on everyone's radar.Troubling times starting to creep up on Britney yet again when her father became ill and she canceled her second Las Vegas residency which was going to be called, Britney: Domination. The songstress was also dealing with her own health issues and her ex-husband Kevin Federline. Fans were beginning to get worried for the star and even started the #FreeBritney movement, drawing attention to a prolonged conservatorship by her father.In April 2019, Britney posted a video to her Instagram account to assure her fans that she was doing just fine and that all was well. Thankfully, the singer had her new boyfriend San Asghari helping her through her troubles. The 25-year old personal trainer and model and Spears first met when he starred in her music video for "Slumber Party." Sam Asghari really seems to be helping Britney get her life back on track. The star looks better than ever with the two going out on hikes, celebrating each other’s birthdays and showing up to red carpet events. However, loyal fans can't wait to see what Britney has coming up next in her music career.Sources: biography.com, thesun.co.uk