

							Getty						
						
													A black cat runs on the field during the second quarter of the New York Giants and Dallas Cowboys game at MetLife Stadium on November 04, 2019.						
					Things are getting spooky at Met Life Stadium. A black cat ran onto the field during the Monday Night Football game between the New York Giants and Dallas Cowboys.It happened with 5:32 remaining in the second quarter and the Giants leading 9-3. The cat caused a delay of about two minutes before it ran off back into the tunnel.The entire scene was captured on the ESPN broadcast:— New York Giants (@Giants) November 5, 2019The announcers couldn’t control their laughter when they were watching replays of the cat scurrying about. ESPN’s Joe Tessitore even did a play-by-play of the cat’s journey onto the field. The delay lasted for about two minutes. Play immediately resumed once the cat went off the field of play and back into the bowels of the stadium. It is unsure if the feline has been retrieved.Westwood One Sports broadcaster Kevin Harlan painted a descriptive and hilarious picture of the action over the radio.AUDIO: There was a cat on the field. @Kevinharlan had the #MNF call for us.It was beautiful. pic.twitter.com/4ShTBVaYRZ— Westwood One Sports (@westwood1sports) November 5, 2019It comes after what’s already been a bizarre week for the professional football teams in New York City, especially the Jets.Giants team reporter Madelyn Burke did some digging about the cat problem at Met Life Stadium. According to building security, there are stray cats that live on the premises. The one that escaped out onto the field “must have gotten startled out by a fan noise,” Burke tweeted.Follow the Heavy on NFL Facebook page for all the latest stories, rumors and viral content!Sam Darnold certainly thinks so. Two weeks ago, Darnold admitted he was “seeing ghosts” during a 33-0 loss to the New England Patriots. The comment was picked up by the NFL films microphones and used on the ESPN Monday Night Football broadcast. Darnold threw four interceptions and lost a fumble in the disastrous loss.Sam Darnold is mic’d up and he came to the sidelines and said, “I’m seeing ghosts.”(Via @ESPN) pic.twitter.com/9MoM6Rkmo5— Dan Roche (@RochieWBZ) October 22, 2019Met Life has been a house of horrors for the Giants this season as well. Big Blue is just 1-4 at home this season entering Monday night’s matchup against the Cowboys.This is not the first time a cat has disrupted a professional sporting event. The most notable being in 1969, after a black cat ran in front of the Chicago Cubs‘ dugout. The Cubs were in first-place all season but collapsed after encountering the critter, missing the playoffs entirely.Cubs Curse2014-02-07T01:17:27.000ZIn 2017, it was another baseball game that disrupted play during a very important moment in a game between the St. Louis Cardinals and Kansas City Royals.With two outs and the bases loaded in the sixth inning, the feline scurried around the center field before finally being retrieved by stadium personnel. But the cat didn’t go down without a fight, viciously scratching the stadium official who was tasked with escorting it off the field. On the next pitch, Cardinals catcher Yadier Molina hit a grand slam, making the moment even more dramatic.— MLB (@MLB) August 10, 2017It’s even happened on the ice. In 2016, a black cat disrupted play between the San Jose Sharks and Nashville Predators. The cat was later named Jo Pawvelski, after San Jose forward Joe Pavelski.Black cat runs across ice, spells bad luck for SharksThe Nashville Predators won't need their signature catfish when a regular cat will do. Watch as a black cat curses the Sharks and predicts certain victory for the visitors in Game 1.2016-04-30T02:20:30.000ZREAD NEXT:  Jacoby Brissett Leaves Game With Knee Injury [WATCH]Follow Jared Smith on Twitter: @jaredleesmith

					Stay Connected				