Filed under:The Leafs kept tying this one up, but it kept coming undone again.Flyers! Who is even on this team tonight?#Flyers line rushes: JVR-Giroux-FarabeeLindblom-Couturier-KonecnyRaffl-Hayes-VoracekTwarynski-Rubtsov-PitlickProvorov-NiskanenGostisbehere-BraunSanheim-MyersElliottThe Leafs are missing John Tavares, Jake Muzzin and some undetermined percentage of Morgan Rielly. The usual suspects on Twitter want you to be outraged that Travis Dermott isn’t in the top four and Martin Marincin is. Instead of lighting torches, let’s track that defenceman ice time tonight. Geeeeez. Jason Spezza with two great chances to score, but not quite. Great start for him and his line. If he wants to get hot, that’s fine with me.JvR in tight with the Flyers’ first chance, but Freddie knows his tricks. The Leafs are bringing it hard at the start, but maybe are a bit rough on passing, and very unlucky on a few chances where an opposite-handed guy would have had the better shot.Wooohooo. Travis Sanheim falls down just at the thought of Kasperi Kapanen getting a breakaway, and well, so he should:1-0 Leafs!SANHEIM trying to keep up with Kasperi Kapanen pic.twitter.com/mp5laZyfVnMore good stuff from Spezza. Is it possible that Mike Babcock’s plan to keep him more rested and play him in rotation with Nick Shore is a good one?Travis Dermott and Justin Holl are working like dogs to get the puck out of the zone, but the Gauthier line just can’t complete the play. At all. Kappy plays the puck right off the bench, and the way the Leafs do line changes (slow off, quick on, and taking full advantage of the loose rules, etc.) that means he made it a too many men penalty. Leafs on the PK, let’s see how Marincin does. Okay, never mind. It’s Ceci and Rielly out to start, but that’s not the point, the Flyers move the puck like a dream and then get a really lucky set of bounces. Tie Game.JvR gets a breakaway and Rielly chose not to fall down. Andersen with an easy save, and that’s about it for this period.Have you thought Mitch Marner has been making some passes that just fizzle out? He passes the puck right into Mikheyev’s feet in the centre of the neutral zone, so he gets jumped by all the Flyers.Leafs take a penalty on some Flyers pressure. Spezza is the guilty party on a holding call.Flyers PP >>>>> Leafs PK. They just move the PKers around with ease, and it’s the forwards that they target to draw out and then move the puck into a shooting lane. It’s a great performance of puck control and tactics. The Flyers score quickly again, and the Leafs never came close to getting that puck and getting it out of the zone. Ceci is going to take the blame, justifiably, but all that came before was not great either.2-1 Flyers.Forget everything I said about Spezza. He’s back in the box on a high stick. Interestingly, there is no Gauthier to start. His spot has been taken by Mikheyev, but a faceoff means he’s out there again, and the Leafs clear the puck for the first time.Andersen is saving this game right now, although it was a much better PK. But the bar they were clearing was a few feet below grade.Rielly takes a penalty because that’s what the weakest defenders on this team do now. Gauthier wins the faceoff, and the Leafs get a shorty rush.  Flyers answer back with a couple of really hot chances, but the Leafs are breaking this up fairly easily. Travis Dermott is just laying on the body out there. They kill this one with something like effectiveness.Oh, hey, offensive Leafs players.Flyers have a lot more jump, and are getting all the real chances.Goal???!!??!? Yes it is. No one seemed sure at first.The broadcast was complaining about the Leafs line choices near the end of the period, looking for some “why not Matthews” controversy. Well, has Matthews been good? I like the irony of the greasy goal from the second/third line after all of that chatter.Tie Game at 2 all.And the inevitable makeup call comes at a stupid time, less than two minutes left in the period. Leafs to the PP.Hell of a shorty chance by the Flyers, not a good PP setup by the Leafs. Once they get set, things happen, but they don’t pass like the Flyers do. Spezza and Mikheyev with the best chances, so take that, first unit!Tough for Spezza. Maybe next time#Leafs x #LeafsForever pic.twitter.com/UVod1oVNY5Okay, that’s not a good start to this period. Flyers get a goal on a play where if you watch Andersen and not the defending, you’ll see he’s so far out from the post, the only way he can get across his crease is by throwing his body, and that means he’s down, and the puck is in. He should not have been off that post. Some of the puck-watching, and three Leafs on one Flyer defending was also bad, as was the wave my stick at you style of trying to get the puck back from Nylander. 3-2 FlyersOh, genius. Ceci dumps Travis Konecny into the Leafs net, and now the Flyers get another power play. The play starts with Couturier outplaying Matthews some more.The Flyers have suddenly lost the ability to get set up, and oh, they take a penalty for a really lazy high stick. Leafs dodge a bullet.The Leafs are dominating four-on-four, until Couturier steals the puck, but Marner gets it right back, and this is a beauty of a goal!Tie Game Again!The very short Leafs PP is for naught. There is a lot of Dermott and Holl as this game marches closer to overtime. Kappy with a rush chance, but no good. He’s been a great player tonight.Konecny with his own great shot at getting the deciding goal with less than two minutes to go.Travis Konecny all alone in front gets a chance. Luckily he shoots wide#Leafs x #LeafsForever pic.twitter.com/KBCmvDJXH8Marner with a rush to end regulation, but he can only shoot backhanded.And do the Leafs take a penalty? They do. This is incredible. Kapanen takes a tripping call, which was not quite the usual, stupid “I can’t defend” penalty, but it wasn’t exactly bright. Andersen weathers half of the PP, and then Nick Shore gets a FOGO shift and clears the puck. Andersen makes a save and we rinse and repeat with Shore.They play out over a minute at four-on-four, which favours the Leafs, but they don’t get a good chance.One minute left of three-on-three.Matthews with a shot, Konecny back the other way, and the Flyers take a penalty with less than a second, so this one is going to a shootout. (Yuck)Spezza's shootout goal #Leafs x #LeafsForever pic.twitter.com/PrMjAhXbbqWINNER WINNER MANGO DINNER!#LeafsForever pic.twitter.com/cYPOVeYFY5You know, he came after two defenders. I bet he was a little pissed. He’s not a shooter-shooter though. Leafs Win!A compilation of all the fan reactions during the #FlyOrDie vs. #LeafsForever shootout #Leafs pic.twitter.com/M8AfQHwStf