OKC got their first win of the year by bullying the hapless Dubs in Oklahoma.The Oklahoma City Thunder dominated the Golden State Warriors 120-92. Stephen Curry led the Warriors with 23 points and 8 rebounds in three quarters of work before being sat out for the final quarter of the blowout.The Warriors shot 32% from the field, 15% from beyond the arc. YIKES. Meanwhile, OKC shot 55%, and made a scorching 15 of their 32 shots from downtown.The Thunder jumped out to an early double-digit lead despite Curry tallying 10 points and 5 boards in the first frame.Can't leave Steph open from anywhere  #DubNation pic.twitter.com/T3Uo57QvDuIt's the end of the first quarter of the Warriors second game of the season. This is the lineup on the floor right now: Poole, Spellman, Lee, Paschall and Evans.The Thunder ripped off 12 points off turnovers in the first frame, capitalizing off of several Golden State mistakes.The second quarter wasn’t any better, as the Warriors fumbled their way through the offense.Very unfortunate that D. Lo didn't get the assist on this. (via @BR_NBA)pic.twitter.com/tDczdqptMTOn the other end, Oklahoma City attacked the Warriors defense with reckless impunity.Shai's game is evolving. (via @okcthunder)pic.twitter.com/GWsyUjU3qfWarriors vs OKC 1st halfORtg: 70.5DRtg: 133.4Net rating: -62.9The Warriors shot 11-of-40 from the field (3-of-19 from downtown) at the half, while the Thunder cruised to 56% shooting with 30 points in the paint.D’Angelo Russell picked up two quick techs in the third quarter and his night ended with six points.DLo gets tossed and the Warriors' struggles continue... pic.twitter.com/7lueAwtqlAThe Thunder took a 105-68 lead into the third quarter and it was pretty much a done deal from there. The Dubs fought hard in garbage time to make the score slightly more respectable; maybe they will take that energy into the next contest?The Warriors don’t have the size to cover for the lack of wing defense. Don’t have the wing defense or shooting that allows them to thrive when going small.It's not just that the Warriors are getting dumptrucked, but they somehow look even worse than the score. Soft, embarrassing defense, comical turnovers, disjointed offense.Tough night for the Dubs, eh? The Warriors will get a chance to work on their mojo tomorrow night with a quick turnaround against the New Orleans Pelicans. This young team is taking their lumps...as expected.