One of R. Kelly's two live-in girlfriends is sharing her story through the service Patreon, which allows creators to sell subscriptions to fans for content hidden behind its paywall.Joycelyn Savage, 24, posted on her personal Instagram account for the first time in two years to advertise the Patreon, which offers access to posts for $3 a month, and has all-access and VIP tiers for unspecified future content for $9 and $25 a month. The Patreon was announced early Saturday, and Savage accrued more than 500 paying subscribers in about three hours.Savage wrote on Instagram that she is "risking my life" and breaking the terms of a non-disclosure agreement she signed in order to post about her experiences as a "victim" of the singer, who is currently detained on charges including racketeering and violating federal trafficking laws.While Kelly awaits trial, Savage and the singer's other girlfriend, Azriel Clary, have been living in his Chicago home and have been spotted walking his dog. Kelly's lawyer claims that the women are not being held hostage, though Savage wrote in the comments under her first Patreon post that she is constantly being watched, and is only posting because one of Kelly's assistants allowed her to.It's unclear for sure whether Savage is the one posting, or if the Patreon account posting is verifiably her, but it's the one linked to from her Instagram account – where it's also unclear if it's Savage posting, or someone posing as her. The parents of both Savage and Clary spoke out for the documentary "Surviving R. Kelly" and said they fear their daughters are being held against their will, and that they were brainwashed.








        In this June 6, 2019, file photo, singer R. Kelly pleaded not guilty to 11 additional sex-related felonies during a court hearing before Judge Lawrence Flood at Leighton Criminal Court Building in Chicago.
      
E. Jason Wambsgans/Chicago Tribune via AP

Savage precedes her post by noting that this past year has been a "breaking point" for her, since she was "forced to do a lot of things." In 2015, she says she was flown out to meet Kelly at one of his concerts, and was 19 at the time.She writes that she had "very mixed emotions" as she was then flown out to California to Kelly's studio, where Savage says Kelly told her he would help her pursue her dreams of being a model and a singer. Savage says Kelly would look at her "in a sexual way" starting from the first few times they met.After meeting Kelly, Savage says she gave the musician her CD and he told her that he would help get her signed and that she would be the next Aaliyah. Savage writes that she dropped out of college because Kelly began to provide her with money, meals, and clothing, while at the same time he recorded songs with her that she says would never be released.Savage says Kelly told her repeated lies and began commanding her to call him "master" and "daddy" after a few months of her living with him. She describes him as controlling and says he would raise his voice if she failed to obey him. Savage also says Kelly was "manipulative" and told her repeated lies that she believed because she was young.Finally, Savage says Kelly's assistants kept watch over her at all times and would stand outside the bathroom door while she showered. She claims that Kelly kept cameras all over his properties and that she wasn't allowed in certain spaces, like the basement. Savage says Kelly would tell her what to say on the phone to her parents and that she listened to him because she believed his promise of a career.In the Patreon post, Savage says she'll continue to update it periodically. Kelly's lawyer didn't immediately respond to Insider's request for comment.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
