As of late, Disney has been leaning into the live-action remake. In 2019, they've released live, or close to live, versions of "Dumbo," "Aladdin," "The Lion King," and "Lady and the Tramp."Some of these remakes make major changes to their source material, while others are pretty much a shot for shot copy.We've compared all the major live-action Disney characters to their original, animated counterparts. You might be surprised how similar — or different — they are.The 2017 film was pretty much a shot-for-shot remake of the 1991 classic, so there wasn't much difference between the two.It was "an ordeal," Stevens told Clevver News.Canonically speaking, the Beast doesn't have a real name.The 2017 film also gave Belle's deceased mother more of a backstory, and delved into Maurice's love for her.No word if Evans ate five dozen eggs every day to get in character.LeFou was also supposed to be Disney's first gay character, but some fans were less than impressed with the scene that was supposed to convey that.Lumiere's best known for the iconic Disney anthem "Be Our Guest." Human Lumiere was just as charming.He ended up being a softy at heart, though.Just like in the original, Mrs. Potts sings "Beauty and the Beast" during the famous ballroom dancing scene.The biggest difference between the "Cinderella" films is that the live action version isn't a musical. Say goodbye to all your faves like "A Dream is a Wish Your Heart Makes" and "Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo."James' dress took 4,000 hours to create.In the 1950 original, the prince is just referred to as The Prince. Madden's prince gets a name: Kit.The remake tried to give her more dimension, but she was still just plain despicable.Their costumes are even more outlandish than their animated counterparts'.After a few years of playing villains (Bellatrix Lestrange in "Harry Potter" and Madame Thénardier in "Les Mis," to name a few), Carter got to play the magical and benevolent Fairy Godmother.The 2014 film rehashed the same story, but from Maleficent's perspective. Turns out, Maleficent was way more complicated than the original allowed her to be.In this version, Aurora saw Maleficent as her guardian angel, not a villain.The King wasn't so developed in the original, but he's downright malicious in "Maleficent."Thwaites was replaced by Harris Dickinson for the upcoming sequel "Maleficent: Mistress of Evil."The 2010 movie aged up Alice from a young girl to 19 years old, and combined the original animated movie with scenes from Lewis Carroll's "Alice" books by adding in the White Queen and the beastly Jabberwocky.The Mad Hatter's backstory was explored more in the 2016 sequel, "Alice Through the Looking Glass."The trio had previously worked together in "Sweeney Todd," "Corpse Bride," "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," and "Dark Shadows."Whitehouse also appeared in deleted scenes of "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" as Sir Cadogan, a bumbling knight inside a painting.Sheen said playing the White Rabbit was "just like a dream come true."Burton's Cheshire Cat has a more muted color palette.Their names have since become shorthand for two people who act and dress in the exact same way — it's usually not a compliment."Alice Through the Looking Glass" was Rickman's last film role. It was released four months after his death in January 2016.In both the 1941 original and the 2019 remake, Dumbo is a silent character. The rest of the movie drastically differs by adding multiple new human characters, both heroic and villainous, and taking away some problematic aspects of the animated film, like the crows and the scary scene in which Dumbo hallucinates.This is not to be confused with the 2018 Netflix film "Mowgli." The 2016 movie adheres closely to the animated movie, while "Mowgli" is more loosely based on Rudyard Kipling's original books. "I just couldn't say no to playing Baloo," said Murray in the film's press kit."Jungle Book" director Jon Favreau has worked with Kingsley before in "Iron Man 3." Favreau played loyal Iron Man sidekick Happy Hogan, and Kingsley took on the mantle of The Mandarin, one of Iron Man's most famous adversaries.For the remake, King Louie was changed from an orangutan to an extinct species, Gigantopithecus, which is essentially a giant ape.Elba was so impressed with the technology that he had to ask the filmmakers if it was a real tiger on screen.In the original, Kaa was voiced by a man, Sterling Holloway, but Johansson took over the role because Favreau felt the film was too male-heavy.Akela, the leader of the wolf pack Mowgli is adopted by, played a smaller role in the 1967 version.Raksha is the adoptive mother of Mowgli who discovers him as an abandoned baby — though she doesn't speak in the original.Close was one of two actors to reprise her role in the 2000 sequel "102 Dalmatians." Besides changing the time period from the '60s to the '90s, the live action remake sticks to the plot of the original.Roger is the owner of Pongo, the father of all the puppies.Anita owns Perdy, the mother of all the puppies. Anita and Roger, like Pongo and Perdy, are married.You might recognize Williams from his role as Arthur Weasley in the "Harry Potter" films.Laurie, of course, is best known for his role as Dr. Gregory House in "House."Traditionally, Winnie the Pooh's human bestie is a child, but this movie aged him up quite a bit. "Christopher Robin" shows Christopher after he's grown up and left the One Hundred Acre Wood behind, so it's not based on any specific animated movie, but rather the characters themselves.Cummings has been voicing the honey-loving bear since 1988 when he took over for Hal Smith. This was Mohammed's first time voicing Piglet, who has most recently been played by Travis Oates.Capaldi is known around the world for his stint as the Twelfth Doctor in "Doctor Who."Roo is normally a boy, but the film gender-swapped her for a girl.The perpetually morose Eeyore has been voiced by Garrett previously in an animated special for Disney.Cummings began voicing Tigger in 1990, taking over for longtime voice actor Paul Winchell.Owl, like Rabbit, Kanga, and Roo, doesn't make the trek from the One Hundred Acre Wood to the real world.Massoud might be familiar to "Jack Ryan" fans. He plays Ryan's colleague, Tarek Kassar. As Insider's Kirsten Acuna noted, Massoud's portrayal of Aladdin is one of the movie's high notes.Jasmine differentiates herself from other Disney princesses by actually refusing to get married, as opposed to aspiring to it. In the 2019 version, the princess even gets her own song, and a brand-new motivation to become the first female sultan of Agrabah.The Genie was made iconic by the late Robin Williams in the animated version. While Smith doesn't come close to Williams' hyperactive, pop culture loving, frequently transfigured Genie, he successfully puts his own spin on the character. He even gets to rap!The biggest change that the live action movie makes is ... turning the villainous Grand Vizier Jafar into what the internet has dubbed "Hot Jafar." We can't disagree — Kenzari is clearly a good looking guy.In the original animated classic, the Sultan is essentially a bumbling old man — he means well, but he's not exactly a commanding presence.Negahban's Sultan is wiser and less easily manipulated by Jafar. He's stubborn about forcing his daughter to marry a prince and not letting Jasmine succeed him as sultan, but they're on more equal footing intellectually than their animated counterparts.Jones' commanding yet warm voice was the obvious choice for Mufasa in 1994, and there's still no one better to voice the character, so he just did it again.This movie isn't literally "live-action," it's filled with photorealistic, animated animals. But even director Jon Favreau isn't sure if the movie should be considered "animated" or not. Little Simba goes through a lot over the course of this movie, including learning about the circle of life, surviving a wildebeest stampede, watching his father die, grappling with being the cause of his father's death — or so he thinks — and exiling himself away from his family, all within the first hour of the movie.Glover's friend, collaborator, and apparent "Lion King" enthusiast Chance the Rapper was brought on as a "nostalgia consultant" during the making of the film, to make sure it retained the same spirit as the original.At first, Simba and Nala are grossed out by the prospect of falling in love, but as they grow up, their relationship matures.She also released a new song for the movie's soundtrack called "Spirit." Additionally, Beyoncé produced and curated an album that will be "steeped in the sounds of Africa" called "The Lion King: The Gift."Timon and Pumbaa became breakout stars of the original 1994 version. They narrate the direct-to-video sequel/prequel "The Lion King 1 1/2," and received their own animated TV show, "The Lion King's Timon & Pumbaa."While Mufasa is busy attending to kingly business, he acts as a guardian for Simba. After Mufasa's death, Zazu remains loyal to the rightful king, Simba.Scar is actually Mufasa's brother and Simba's uncle, making his betrayal all the more painful.Sarabi doesn't have much to do in the original film, so it's nice to see her have more agency in the 2019 film.Rafiki plays an integral role in helping Simba understand his rightful place as king of the Pride Lands.Kani was last seen in "Black Panther" as T'Challa's deceased father King T'Chaka. The movie had a scene that reminded many viewers of a pivotal Rafiki scene in the original "Lion King."Originally, the three hyenas were Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed. But the 2019 film switches Banzai and Ed out for Azizi, played by Eric André, and Kamari, played by Keegan-Michael Key.   Lady's part is played by the real dog Rose, a Cocker Spaniel, while her voice is none other than Thompson.Overall, the movie seems pretty similar to the original, with a few much-needed updates.Theroux is a vocal advocate for rescue dogs, and has become quite close with Monty, who plays Tramp. Monty was rescued from a kill shelter in New Mexico, but has since been adopted by an animal trainer.In the original film, Peg was voiced by famed jazz singer Peggy Lee. Lee also wrote the lyrics to the film's other famous song, "Bella Notte."Jock was originally played by a man, an actor named Bill Thompson. Thompson was born and raised in the US, though.Elliott's casting is absolutely perfect.While Bull might look scary, he's really just a sweetheart in both versions.In the new version, the cats sing a brand new song called "What a Shame." They're also gender-swapped into male cats, played by frequent Janelle Monáe collaborators Nate Wonder and Roman GianArthur.The original cats were voiced by Peggy Lee, a white actress, who put on a stereotypical Asian accent for their song, "The Siamese Cat Song." The song, and those cats, are not missed.In the original, you rarely see the faces of Lady's owners, but Clemons and Mann have much more to do in the new film.While Brown's iteration of the character adds some laughs to the movie, she still gets told off in the end.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
