CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againAll the deals you'll want to shop right now.We love a good deal just as much as anyone. That's why we've rounded up some of the best kitchenware, food and wine sales we've seen on the internet, in one easy-to-access place. Although Black Friday and Cyber Monday are behind us, a lot of these sales are going on, from tons of cookware sets and appliances at discounted prices, plus food and wine subscription services. We'll be updating this list regularly, so check back often to see what new food-forward and kitchen sales are still happening. Read more: A Vitamix blender is just $246 right now for Cyber Monday | Best gifts for foodies in 2019  Anolon is having plenty of sales this season, but we're especially into saving money on all cookware sets, like this 15-piece professional cookware bundle that handily comes with two wooden spoons and a metal baking sheet. 
    
    
    
    These elegant copper pans from Lagostina will make you feel like you're working in a restaurant kitchen, thanks to their bright, shiny exterior. The 10-piece set is replete with two frying pans, two saucepans, one saute pan, one stockpot and four lids.
    
    
    
    From Nov. 27 through Dec. 3, S'well (the water bottle company) is offering 25% off all products on its site. Stock up on your favorite colors and water bottle sizes that are eco-friendly, like this traveler bottle, a perfect option for drinking coffee on the go. Just use code CYBMON19 at checkout.    
    
    
    
    For the chef who wants a rug in the kitchen but wants the added support underfoot, GelPro comfort rugs add a bit of comfort and style to your floor. The rugs come in a rainbow of colors and styles with GellyGrippers for non-slip traction, and for Black Friday are 30% off with free shipping; just use the code CYBER19.  
    
    
    
    Read more: The best wine clubs and subscriptions in 2019 for your tasteNew shoppers can get 45% off Winc's wine subscriptions, where shipments of wine are curated just for you, from now until Dec. 7. A simple online quiz helps Winc determine your palate, so you'll always get wines you're bound to enjoy.   
    
    
    
    Although Sakara, the precooked meal delivery service that is 100% plant-based, organic, gluten-free and dairy-free, is no longer having a sale, for Giving Tuesday the company is donating $30 for every order to Feeding America.
    
    
    
    Brava, the space-saving oven that sits on your counter, is offering $250 off its products (Brava items generally start around $1,095, but the current Black Friday and Cyber Monday price is $845 for the starter set). This kitchen appliance can bake, sear meats and dehydrate and air fry food, plus you can use your phone to monitor your food from wherever you are in your home.
    
    
    
    Material is one of the very popular direct-to-consumer cookware brands. For Cyber Monday, Material is presenting a one-time offer of 25% off of everything on the site, like this essential set of kitchen tools and knives, plus sauce pans and cutting boards.
    
    
    
    Clear some space in your fridge for a slew of cured meats, olive oils and caviar from D'Artagnan, including foie gras and white truffle oil. Select Cyber Monday items are 30% off through Dec. 3. 
    
    
    
    Get ready to cook with only the best cast iron pans, thanks to Field Company's Cyber Monday deal. If you buy one single Field Skillet, shoppers can also get one half-off; if you buy two, you'll get one free, and so on. This deal is great because you can buy yourself a few skillets -- and also pick up some gifts along the way. We also like this discounted rate on five cast-iron skillets, which is marked down from $670 to $500, brimming with a range of small to large skillets. 
    
    
    
    Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.