It's been nearly one week since Zozibini Tunzi from South Africa was crowned Miss Universe 2019.The activist and pageant winner has since embarked on a press tour in New York City, wearing one showstopping outfit after another.On Thursday, she donned a pantsuit covered in gold glitter while walking around the city. She also wore shiny black pumps, and a black-and-white animal-print top underneath her blazer.The suit was designed by Ramy Brook, and retails for $990 (the jacket costs $595, and the pants cost $395.)








        Zozibini Tunzi poses in New York City on Thursday.
      
Patricia Schlein/Star Max/Getty images

On Instagram, Tunzi shared another look at her sparkling outfit, in which she's also seen wearing a fuzzy black jacket. It was designed by Istanbul-based brand N'Onat, and retails for $400.N'Onat uses faux fur on all its designs, which it says are entirely cruelty-free.
Walking out of the last interview of the day like...A post shared by  Zozibini Tunzi (@zozitunzi) on Dec 12, 2019 at 1:55pm PSTDec 12, 2019 at 1:55pm PST
Prior to wearing the golden pantsuit, Tunzi donned an elegant white dress while visiting the SiriusXM Studios in New York City on Wednesday. She paired the button-up piece with black tights and silver heels, as well as her Miss Universe crown.








        Miss Universe Zozibini Tunzi visits SiriusXM on Wednesday.
      
Slaven Vlasic/Getty Images

Not only is she the first black woman from South Africa to take home the crown, but she also became the fourth woman of color to win a major pageant title in 2019. Cheslie Kryst is Miss USA 2019, Nia Franklin is Miss America 2019, and Kaliegh Garris is Miss Teen USA 2019. Tunzi, Kryst, and Garris also made history by wearing their natural hairstyles while being crowned.A post shared by  Zozibini Tunzi (@zozitunzi) on Dec 12, 2019 at 12:26pm PSTDec 12, 2019 at 12:26pm PST
Previously speaking to Insider's Anneta Konstantinides, Tunzi shared her feelings on becoming the first Miss Universe titleholder to win while wearing natural afro-textured hair. According to the pageant winner, she was initially told to wear a wig, but chose not to as she believes "beauty does not look one certain way.""It was so strange because even a lot of people I knew, people that were my friends, were like, 'Sis, we love you, but we're just saying, maybe you should put on a wig or buy a weave,'" Tunzi said."I was like, 'No, you know what, I'm going to do it the way I am, because I've been with my natural hair for the past three years,"' she continued. "I don't see why I should change it just because I'm stepping into another platform."
                                Follow INSIDER on Facebook.
                              