Jessie James Decker is serving as a brand ambassador for Enfagrow to help launch the brand's most recent innovation in toddler nutritional drinks.While promoting her new partnership, the 31-year-old country singer and fashion designer answered 12 rapid-fire questions for Insider, revealing everything from the last show she binge-watched to which fellow country queen she adds to every playlist she makes. 1. Who is your dream collaborator, or person you wish to work with?Sarah Jessica Parker. She is one of my icons and I love her style!2. Who is the last person who gave you a really good piece of advice and what was it?Well anyone who knows me, knows I'm my mama's biggest fan. She is my rock, my confidant, and the person I seek advice from in all situations. To be honest, to this day, the best piece of advice I EVER received was from her.She just always told me I could do anything I wanted to do. She instilled it in me, and without that advice, without her in my ear, I would not be where I am today. This piece of advice I have even taken with me into motherhood and hope to instill in my kids that they too can be who they want to be and do anything they want to do.3. What's the last show you binged?"Sex Education," and I highly recommend it!4. If you were an animal, what would you be?Definitely a Lioness.5. What's a song that makes you cry?The song that most recently made me cry is actually a song I just recorded. It's not out yet, but it was a vulnerable song for me to record and potentially release.6. Which fashion trend do you wish would go away? I'm not sure I want any fashion trend to go away, but I will say due to an allergy I steer clear of the latex dress trend, and I'm pretty sure I would allergy or not. A post shared by  Jessie James Decker (@jessiejamesdecker) on Oct 22, 2019 at 10:40am PDTOct 22, 2019 at 10:40am PDT
 7. What's one thing you'll never travel without?Headphones!8. Who's one artist or song that's always on your playlists?Kacey Musgraves is one of my favorite artists to listen to and to sing along with — she's always on my playlists. Honestly, I have so many favorite songs though it really just depends on the mood I'm in!9. Who's your most listened to artist on Spotify?My most listened to artist on Spotify is Madeleine Peyroux.10. What are you looking forward to most in 2020?Honestly, I have a lot coming up in 2020 to look forward to. Between [my fashion line] Kittenish, family, music, and just the moving pieces of life in general, I feel so fortunate right now. Next year is going to be extra special though because I have a really big announcement coming up, AND NEW MUSIC — which I am thrilled to share with everyone!
A post shared by Jessie James Decker (@jessiejamesdecker)Dec 8, 2019 at 12:35pm PST
 11. Why did you decide to partner with Enfagrow? I'm traveling so much and always on-the-go, and Enfagrow makes it so easy to just throw one of the toddler nutritional drinks into my bag and go and I feel comfortable knowing that my babies are getting the nutrients they need, like DHA, iron, calcium, vitamin D and calcium. My youngest, Forrest, LOVES the NeuroPro! We call it his "special drink." Enfagrow's products make life so much easier for busy moms. 12. What do you hope to achieve with the partnership? I know giving my kids a well-balanced diet is important, but what I didn't realize before speaking with my pediatrician recently was just how important nutrition is for overall brain development, especially in the first three years of a child's life. I hope that by partnering with Enfagrow, I can help to raise awareness and educate parents about the importance of toddler nutrition.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
