








        The Mejuri Diamonds Team Ring (originally $395) will be at least 10% off on Black Friday, and as much as 20% off.
      
Mejuri

Black Friday means major deals from big-box retailers like Best Buy, Amazon, and Walmart, but it also means sales at startups for which Cyber Week may be the sole discount that they offer all year. Mejuri, the D2C jewelry startup known for making affordable everyday jewelry, is one of those startups.Mejuri's one and only sale of 2019 will be its Black Friday sale. Shoppers will get 10% off one item, 15% off two items, and 20% off when they purchase three or more items. The discounts will be available for newsletter subscribers starting on Monday, November 25, and beginning on Wednesday, November 27 for everyone else. The discounts won't apply to Mejuri's wedding and engagement collections or its travel case and jewelry box.We recommend any of Mejuri's personalized jewelry ($40-$390) and the zodiac collection ($70-$350) for gifting to others (or yourself) this holiday season. We also suggest scanning its under-$150 gift guide for more budget-friendly options.Looking for more gift ideas? We've got you covered with our ultimate holiday gift guide. 








        The Mejuri Diamond Necklace (originally $285) will be at least $28 off on Black Friday.
      
Mejuri

The following deals reflect the sitewide 10% off for buying just one item. If you buy more than one item, the percentage you save will go up to as high as 20% off for three or more items. 








        The Mejuri Single Diamonds Line Mini Hoop (originally $175) will be at least $17 off.
      
Mejuri

Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.