CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againMany of Amazon's e-readers, tablets and video streamers are at their lowest prices since Prime Day -- and more deals are on the way.Amazon just broadened its plethora of Black Friday deals, adding its Fire-branded video streamers to the discounts already available. You can now get the Fire TV Stick 4K with Alexa Voice Remote and the non-4K version of its Fire TV Stick with Alexa Voice Remote for half off, as well as $30 off the all-new Fire TV Cube that normally goes for $90. Those deals come in alongside compelling offers on nearly all Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets and even the Echo Show 8 smart display, which was already discounted to begin with. We've got the full list of Amazon devices on sale now, with more to come throughout the week, including deals on Echo speakers and more Echo Show smart displays. Here's the quick breakdown of what's coming, followed by more in-depth analysis of what's available now:Looking for more Amazon discounts? Be sure to check out our ongoing list of the best Amazon early Black Friday deals available right now. Full details are available below. Just remember that the sale prices are not available until the dates indicated.  Here's everything that went on sale right now (price drop started Friday, Nov. 22 or earlier).  Spend just $10 more for the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K (usually $50). Available now.
See our Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K review.
    
    Want to save $5? Get the non-4K version of the Fire TV Stick. (This was actually $15 during Prime Day 2019.)Available now.
See our review of the Fire TV Stick.
    
    Save $30 on the new Fire TV Cube. (The older model was $70 during Prime Day.)Available now.
See details on the 2019 Amazon Fire TV Cube.
    
    This is the Goldilocks tablet in Amazon's line -- you're much better off getting this model versus the 7-incher below.Available now.
See our Amazon Fire HD 8 Tablet review.
    
    Save $50 on the Fire HD 8 Kids Edition tablet. This is the same hardware as above, but with 32GB of storage built-in, a rubberized case, a year of FreeTime Unlimited (kid-friendly content) and a two-year no-questions-asked replacement warranty for any damage.Available now.
See our Amazon Fire 8 Kids Edition Tablet review.
    
    The Amazon Fire 7 Tablet, updated for 2019, usually costs $50. During this Black Friday sale, it will be just $30. That said, we highly recommend you upgrade to the 8-inch model below for just $20 more.Available now.
See our Amazon Fire 7 Tablet review.
    
    Save $40 on the Fire 7 Kids Edition tablet, just $60. This has the same features as the 8-incher Kids version, above.Available now.
See our Amazon Fire 7 Kids Edition Tablet review.
    
    The biggest tablet in Amazon's lineup is the Fire HD 10. This 10-inch model was just updated for 2019 with a faster processor and USB-C charging, too. Normally $150, it'll be 33% off during this sale period.Available now.
See our hands-on preview of the 2019 Fire HD 10 Tablet review.
    
    Normally $130, the Paperwhite -- the best all-around Kindle e-reader -- is back down to just $85 during this sale. And Amazon throws in a $5 ebook credit, too.Available now.
See our Kindle Paperwhite review.
    
    We'd strongly recommend you spend up for the Paperwhite. But if you're shopping on a budget, the newest entry-level Kindle finally includes a built-in light, and it's back down to its Prime Day price -- with a $5 ebook credit thrown in, too.Available now.
Read our Kindle 2019 review.
    
    Yes, Amazon just introduced a new Kindle Oasis this year that adds a color-adjustable integrated light that's easier on the eyes. But that model is $250, and otherwise nearly identical to the 2017 model that Amazon is discounting now to $180. If you're gifting something to a serious ebook fan, this is a pretty great choice.Available now.
Read our Kindle Oasis 2017 review.
    
    It's not even released yet, but Amazon just trotted out its first-ever discount on the Echo Show 8. It's basically a larger version of the super-popular Echo Show 5 (which is currently on sale for $80, FYI), and therefore better suited to places like the kitchen, where the 8-inch screen makes it easier to view cooking videos and the like.Available now.
Read our Echo Show 8 preview.
    
    If you're a newcomer to Amazon's music-streaming service, it's hard to beat a buck for four full months of service. After that, you'll pay the regular rate of $9.99 per month, though you can cancel if you like, without penalty. Available now.
The day before Thanksgiving means even more stuff goes on sale.      No longer confined to your doorbell, the Ring Indoor Cam lets you add surveillance to any room of your home. Just make sure your comfortable with Ring's relationship with law enforcement first. 
    
    
                            See our Ring Indoor Cam versus Wyze Cam comparison.
    
    The Blink XT2 is a weatherproof security camera with a battery that can supposedly last for two years. Getting a two-pack for $100 is a good deal. (There was a two-pack offered during Prime Day at a lower price.)
    
    
                            See our hands-on preview of the Blink XT2.
    
    It's not our favorite smart plug, but if you're getting it for $5, there's nothing to complain about. And that's the price when you bundle it in with the Echo Dot, Echo Dot with Clock, Echo, Echo Show 5 or Echo Studio, starting Nov. 27.
    
    
                            Read our Amazon Smart Plug review.
    
    Happy Thanksgiving! While you're basting the turkey, you can buy a good chunk of Amazon's updated Echo line at some very discounted prices.      Back to its Prime Day low, the Echo Dot (without the clock) puts all of the smarts of Amazon's assistant Alexa into a small and affordable package. Even at its normal price of $50, it's a good deal, so the $22 price is still something to celebrate. With voice commands, you can control your smart home, check the weather, play music, search the internet and more. You lose some sound quality with the smaller size, but you can plug it into your own speakers to make up for the difference.
    
    
                            See the Amazon Echo Dot 2018 review.
    
    But c'mon... you want the newer, cooler version with the clock built-in, right? It was just introduced in September at $60, but now it'll be at its lowest price yet: Just $35.
    
    
                            Read our Echo Dot with Clock review.
    
    If you want a smart speaker with Alexa that has a little more oomph to its sound quality, the latest version of the original Echo might be the right choice for you. The older version of this puppy was selling for $50 at one point on Prime Day, but with a list price of $100, $60 isn't half bad. 
    
    
                            See our Amazon Echo 2019 review.
    
    With a a 5.5-inch touchscreen and the ability to wake you up with a nifty sunrise animation, this is our favorite smart display with Alexa. And at this price, it's a no-brainer. 
    
    
                            See our Amazon Echo Show 5 review.
    
    The second gen Echo Show refined the design of the first model and offers better sound quality and a 10-inch HD screen. It combines the functionality of a smart speaker like the Echo Dot with a touchscreen you can use for video calls and controlling your smart home with a tap. We like the Echo Show 5 a little better, but at $150 for the full-sized Show -- $10 less than Prime Day, which looks to be its lowest ever -- is a tempting offer. 
    
    
                            See our Amazon Echo Show review.
    
    Do you need Alexa in your car? Probably not. But who are we to judge? If you always wanted Amazon's personal assistant on the road, now you can have it for half price. That's the lowest since it first became available to buy earlier this year.
    
    
                            See our Echo Auto review.
    
    Originally published earlier.     Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.