CNET también está disponible en español.Don't show this againWalmart has good deals going right now on the Xbox, PS4 and Nintendo Switch. Check them out.We are on the very cusp of Black Friday and the major deals we've been waiting for are starting to pop up. Walmart is doing its part with a batch of killer discounts on gaming console bundles, including the Xbox One S with Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order for $200, a different Xbox One S package with three games for $150 and a massive PS4 bundle for $200. Read more: Walmart Black Friday 2019 ad: Everything going on sale next week We've highlighted the cream of the crop below. And we'll be updating pricing and availability on a continual basis, so bookmark this page and check back often.The main event kicks off online at Walmart.com tomorrow -- that's Wednesday, Nov. 27, the day before Thanksgiving -- at 7 p.m. PT (10 p.m. ET). But Walmart has already discounted a wide variety of products. We've assembled the highlights of what's available right now below.  This is a good one. Pick up the Xbox One S and three games -- Sea of Thieves, Fortnite and Minecraft -- for $150. This package also includes 2,000 V-Bucks to spend in Fortnite.
    
    
                            Read our Xbox One S review.
    
    This is the best we've seen this season. Last year, you got the same  console plus Spider-Man at this price, so this is a pretty big ramp-up. You get:That pulls together three of the best-ever PS4 exclusives -- albeit ones that are not for younger kids. Read more at GameSpot: The best PS4 Black Friday 2019 deals.
    
    
                            Read our PS4 Slim review.
    
    For die-hard Star Wars fans, this is the deal to beat. Jedi Fallen Order  is a hotly anticipated game, and there probably isn't a better console  to play it on than the Xbox One X in UHD 4K. The Deluxe Edition of the  game features some premium in-game skins and 90 minutes of  behind-the-scenes video content. The bundle also includes three months  of Xbox Live Gold.
    
    
                            Read our Xbox One X review.
    
    The Xbox One S may not have all the horsepower of an Xbox One X, but given the price difference between the consoles, it might be a worth compromise. We love this deal because it lands you Jedi Fallen Order and a new Xbox for almost half the cost of the  Xbox One X bundle. 
    
    
    
    This bundle includes the new version of the Switch, which offers an improved battery  life of up to 9 hours. And since the list price  for this Switch is $299, you're getting Spyro for free. 
    
    
                            Read more about the Nintendo Switch V2.
    
    Lookin for the other end of the size spectrum? Check out this 70-incher from RCA, the RTRU7027-US. We haven't reviewed it, and this brand isn't exactly known for its picture quality. But it's a friggin' 70-inch 4K Roku TV for $550. Allowances can (and will) be made!
    
    
    
    If you're looking to let a robot vacuum for you but you're put off by the price on iRobot's latest models, the 670 is here for you. This model includes Wi-Fi to do your bidding via a mobile app, Alexa or Google Assistant. 
    
    
    
    We've seen this discount come and go. Now it's back. At $99, we're big fans of the Ninja Coffee Bar, which provides an unequaled list of features and capabilities.
    
    
                            Read our Ninja Coffee Bar review.
    
    We haven't reviewed this model, the UN65NU6900, but the specs are tight, and it's got kudos from users. And it's almost $100 less than the 70-inch Roku TV below, which is a pretty compelling bargain. 
    
    
    
    We reviewed the similar Legion Y545 and appreciated its edgy design and great components for the price. Walmart's configuration comes stocked with solid components, including an Intel Core i7 processor, 8GB of RAM, 512GB SSD and Nvidia GeForce GTX 1650 GPU.
    
    
                            Read our Lenovo Legion Y545 review.
    
    Acer's Chromebook 715 has some premium features that are rare in the Chromebook class. You get a 15.6-inch Full HD display, eighth-gen Intel Core i3 processor, 4GB of RAM and a 128GB hard drive. And it's tough: Acer says its all-aluminum chassis can survive drops from up to 4 feet.
    
    
                            Read our Acer Chromebook 715 preview.
    
    When Lenovo introduced the IdeaPad 330s last year, it started at $500. Now, you can get a decent midrange configuration -- with a quad-core AMD processor, a 256GB SSD and 8GB of RAM -- for under $350. Equipped with a sharp 15.6-inch display, the 330s has thinner-than-usual bezels and an aluminum lid.
    
    
                            Read our Lenovo IdeaPad 330s preview.
    
    Remember when hoverboards cost $500 or more? Well some still do, but you don't need to spend nearly that much to ride a self-balancing two-wheeler. While most hoverboards tend to run $130-$200 these days, this model from Fluxx is about the cheapest you're going to find one for the holidays. 
    
    
    
    While CNET hasn't reviewed this exact model (RTR3260-W) -- and expectations for a $130 TV shouldn't be too high -- this 720p model has the Roku smart TV operating system (our favorite) and three HDMI inputs. Hard to complain about that feature set at this price if you're looking for a small TV for the kitchen or kids' room.
    
    
    
    This Walmart exclusive, which includes Google's tiny virtual assistant and Chromecast streaming device, turns any TV into a smart TV. Hook them up and use your phone (or voice) to stream Netflix, YouTube, Spotify, Pandora, HBO Now and thousands of other apps and games.
    
    
                            Read our Google Home Mini review.
    
    The price on this model was $599 last week -- but even at $699, this is a solid deal on an older version of Apple's iPad Pro. The 10.5-inch iPad was released in 2017, but Walmart's loaded configuration (512GB of storage, Apple's A10X processor) will do the job in 2019 and beyond.
    
    
                            Read our 10.5-inch iPad Pro review.
    
    I bought this -- actually two of them -- last year for my kids, and it was a hit. You get a new, small Lego figure or ship for 24 days in a row. These usually sell out.
    
    
    
    Most of Arcade1Up's machines cost around $300. This one -- which is a three-quarter-size version of the original -- costs $170 once it's in your shopping cart. And it looks, sounds and plays exactly like the old arcade machines. Walmart is also offering the Centipede edition for $180.
    
    
    
    We know that the Apple Watch Series 3 will be on sale at Walmart (and elsewhere) next week for $129 (38mm) and $159 (42mm). If you need one now, however, Walmart has already lowered prices to $170 for the 38mm GPS model and the $199 for the cellular equivalent.
    
    
                            Read our Apple Watch Series 3 review.
    
    We've been testing this in our lab and the results are promising. It's the ultimate tool for powering through a blackout or keeping your devices online while camping, and this is the best price anywhere.
    
    
    
    Nintendo will be offering its own Black Friday Switch bundle next week -- but that one will include the original version of the console, not the newer version with improved battery life. Walmart's bundle includes a physical copy of Minecraft.
    
    
                            Read more about the Nintendo Switch V2.
    
    The M-Series Quantum delivers excellent picture quality, with deep black levels, accurate color and very good 4K HDR performance. And its smart system is phone-friendly, with Google Cast and Apple AirPlay control.And Walmart also has the the 50-inch model for $467, but it's the M7 series, which doesn't deliver quite the same level of picture quality as that M8. It's still a great price, however.
    
    
                            Read our Vizio M-Series Quantum review.
    
    The Eufy RoboVac 35C connects via Wi-Fi to Alexa or Google Assistant, which means that you can tell it to clean up, and then walk away. We haven't tested this particular model, which Walmart has discounted by more than $200, but we did review the similar 11S Max model (pictured above), which we found to be a solid performer on bare hardwood floors.
    
    
                            Read our roundup of robot vacuum cleaners.
    
    Most of the deals are similar or identical to what we've already seen from Target, Best Buy and other early movers. But given its size and scale, Walmart will undoubtedly scoop up plenty of shoppers, too. These early deals don't go live until after next week but here's an overview of the highlights, with savings versus MSRP (unless otherwise indicated): Originally posted last month. Frequently updated with additional deals and information.  Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.