Esto tambi輹 se puede leer en espa絪l.Don't show this againApple CEO Tim Cook makes the announcement as Apple reports its third-quarter earnings.iPhones will be sold at 0% interest for 24 months if bought with the Apple Card.Apple will begin allowing customers to buy iPhones and pay them off over two years interest-free, CEO Tim Cook맙aid Wednesday. But it only works if you buy the handset with the new Apple Card. This will also give customers 3% cash back on the total cost of the phone. "I'm very pleased to announce today that later this year, we're adding another great feature to Apple Card," Cook said. "Customers will be able to purchase their new iPhone and pay for it over 24 months with 0% interest." There will also be no fees, Cook added, "and the ability to simply manage their payments right in the Apple Wallet app on iPhone." Theㅁpple Card was launched in August as the company's first credit card for iOS users only. It's both마 digital card on your iPhone in Apple Wallet as well as a physical credit card that you can use wherever the Apple Pay service isn't available. The news came as Apple reported its third-quarter earnings, which saw the iPhone maker reveal a 2% rise in sales to $64 billion for the three months ending Sept. 28. Most of the sales came from wearables including the Apple Watch and AirPods, and services like iCloud photo and document storage, plus the new Apple Arcade. "We concluded a groundbreaking fiscal 2019 with our highest Q4 revenue ever, fueled by accelerating growth from services, wearables and iPad," Cook said in a statement. iPhone sales fell by almost 10% down to $33 billion, but sales of the iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max could grow in the holiday quarter.Apple also used the iPhone 11 event in September to announce a newWatch Series 5, a new entry-level말Pad for 2019마nd updates on theㅁpple Arcade많aming service. The biggest news was the new iPhone 11's맚hree cameras마nd advanced computational photography.First published at 2:45 p.m. PT on Oct. 30.  Updated on Oct. 31 at 3:54 p.m.:ㅁdds more info on iPhone 11 event. Be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. We delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. Discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion.