The Getty Fire, which broke out near the Getty Center early Monday morning, has spread across 745 acres in Los Angeles.The blaze forced thousands to flee their homes, including LeBron James and Arnold Schwarzenegger, though most evacuation orders were lifted on Wednesday. The fire was 39% contained as of Thursday morning, according to the Los Angeles Fire Department. The National Weather Service has issued an "extreme red-flag warning" for fire conditions through 6 p.m. on Thursday."Conditions are as dangerous for fire growth and behavior as we have seen in recent years," the LA Fire Department said in a statement. Wind gusts up to 78 mph were recorded in Los Angeles and Ventura counties on Wednesday, with gusts up to 40 mph expected through Thursday afternoon. Humidity is as low as 1% in some areas, making vegetation easy to ignite.








        From left, LA Mayor Eric Garcetti, LA City Councilman Mike Bonin and California Gov. Gavin Newsom view a burned home in Brentwood, California October 29, 2019.
      

Wally Skalij/Pool via REUTERS


"It only takes one ember to blow downwind to start another fire," LA Fire Chief Ralph Terrazas said in a press conference Tuesday morning. "Embers have been known to travel several miles."Flames have destroyed 12 homes and damaged at least five. The blaze threatens another 7,091 homes.Two firefighters have sustained minor injuries.The fire was likely caused by a dry tree branch that broke due to powerful winds and landed on nearby power lines, the LA Fire Department announced on Tuesday. Though it didn't break the power lines, the impact caused sparking that ignited a nearby bush.Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti called it "an act of God."On Monday morning, LeBron James said on Twitter that his family had fled. "Had to emergency evacuate my house and I've been driving around with my family trying to get rooms," he wrote. Eighteen minutes later, James said they'd found accommodations.James recounted the experience to reporters before a Lakers game on Tuesday."It's just challenging at that hour, getting my family, getting my kids, getting everybody and having to evacuate at such a rapid, rapid rate," he said, according to CNN. "You don't really have much time to think about what you can get or what you can do. You just got to get out and get to safety." On Tuesday, James sent firefighters a taco truck as a gesture of thanks. Garcetti shared images of the lunch on Twitter."The most important thing is the first responders, how important they are, how committed they are to be able to respond at that hour, at that speed," James told the LA Times.








        A firefighting helicopter flies over the Getty Fire as it burns in the hills of West Los Angeles, California, October 28, 2019.
      

REUTERS/Gene Blevins


The Getty Fire led parts of the 405 freeway to close temporarily, though the roadway has since reopened. Flames have been visible from the Getty Center, but the museum itself is safe for now."Many have asked about the art — it is protected by state-of-the-art technology," the museum said in a statement on Twitter. "The safest place for the art and library collections is inside."Powerful Santa Ana winds have helped the fire spread, according to the Los Angeles Fire Department. The Santa Anas blow down from neighboring mountains toward the southern California coast during the fall and winter, picking up speed and heat as they travel through narrow passes and down toward sea level.Across California, strong winds have coincided with dry conditions to fuel several wildfires, including the Kincade Fire in Sonoma County. (In the northern part of the state, the phenomenon is referred to as Diablo winds.)"It's a dangerous season right now," Terrazas said. "We have not had any significant rainfall for a period of time. So that's why we're very, very concerned about these weather conditions."








        Woodbridge firefighter Joe Zurilgen passes a burning home as the Kincade Fire rages in Healdsburg, California, on October 27, 2019.
      

Noah Berger / AP


Individual wildfires can't be directly attributed to climate change, but accelerated warming increases their likelihood."Climate change, with rising temperatures and shifts in precipitation patterns, is amplifying the risk of wildfires and prolonging the season," the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) said in a July release.This year fits that trend so far. July was the hottest month ever recorded, and 2019 overall is on pace to be the third-hottest on record globally, according to Climate Central. The average wildfire season is 78 days longer than it was 50 years ago, according to the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions. That's because dying trees and vegetation are drying out (and becoming more available to burn) earlier in the year.Large wildfires in the western US now burn more than twice the area they did in 1970. When it comes to California specifically, a recent study found that the portion of the state that burns in wildfires every year has increased more than five-fold since 1972. Nine of the 10 biggest fires in the state's history have occurred since the year 2003.








        Shayanne Gal/Business Insider
      

"No matter how hard we try, the fires are going to keep getting bigger, and the reason is really clear," climatologist Park Williams told Columbia University's Center for Climate and Life. "Climate is really running the show in terms of what burns."Last year, California Gov. Jerry Brown warned the state has entered "uncharted territory.""Since civilization emerged 10,000 years ago, we haven't had this kind of heat condition, and it's going to continue getting worse," he said.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
