I grew up in Houston, Texas, and in the 15 years I spent there I had some amazing food.Even though I no longer live in the area, I still believe that nothing compares to the city's incredible array of local restaurants. Here are some of the best foods you can get in Houston, according to a local. An always-crowded, no-frills spot, The Breakfast Klub serves up plenty of delicious and filling dishes.It's known for its giant, crispy Belgian waffle topped with six golden, deep-fried chicken wings, but the menu also includes a full selection of delicious breakfast and lunch items, like catfish and grits or pork chops and eggs. If you're looking for traditional Southern comfort food, visit Hickory Hollow in Northwest Houston.Bring your appetite since the portions here can be pretty large — for example, The Rancher is 22 to 24 ounces of battered steak topped with special gravy.  If you can finish it by yourself, you'll earn a spot on the restaurant's Wall of Fame.The chain is also known for its other Southern specialties, like barbecued meats, catfish fillets, steaks, baked potatoes, Southern-style green beans, and deep-fried jalapeno potato puffs.Recently featured on Yelp's 2019 Top 100 Places to Eat list, Kat's BBQ is worth the drive to the Houston suburb of Santa Fe. Kat's serves up classic barbecue dishes like brisket, sausage, pork, beef, ribs, and sides like beans, coleslaw, potato salad, and mac and cheese.But the best way to try out the spot's offerings is with the classic Kat's Plate, which is $28 worth of pulled pork, ribs, brisket, sausage, and three sides of your choosing.The restaurant is so popular with the locals that its store hours are listed as, "Open Wednesday-Sunday, 11:00 a.m. until sold out."Located in the Houston suburb of Tomball, Mel's Country Cafe serves up a burger that's so huge it has become the focus of an eating challenge.If you can eat the mammoth Mega Mel burger made with 1 1/2 pounds of ground beef, a pound of bacon, and 1/4 pound of cheese in two hours without any help, you'll get a spot on the restaurant's Wall of Fame.For diners who don't want to take on the challenge, Mel's menu also includes local favorites like Cajun catfish, chicken and dumplings, and chicken-fried steak. The restaurant, which has three locations throughout the city, serves classic American dishes like burgers and Philly cheesesteak as well as trademark Greek dishes based on family recipes. The most popular dish is the gyro sandwich, pita bread stuffed with a mix of lamb, beef, Greek spices, tomato, onion, and fresh tzatziki sauce.Other top picks include homemade hummus, falafel, Greek salads, dolma, and crispy spanakopita. Ninfa's began as a simple taco joint serving up Mama Ninfa's trademark Tacos Al Carbon, made with grilled skirt steak on tortillas from her family's tortilla factory. Today, the fajitas at Ninfa's are a must-try dish and they are served with flour tortillas, pico de gallo, guacamole, and chile con queso.Other top dishes at Ninfa's are traditional Mexican tamales, combination plates, and many varieties of enchiladas.  A bonafide Houston institution with four locations, House of Pies is a diner-style restaurant that's open 24 hours.The chain is most known for its massive dessert menu, which includes specialty pies, cream pies, fruit pies, cheesecakes, traditional cakes, ice cream, and more.If you have to choose just one dessert, I suggest the Bayou Goo, a pie that's made with pecan crust, sweetened cream cheese, and vanilla custard with chocolate chunks, and then topped with fresh whipped cream with chocolate shavings.  Although Marini's serves up other items such as sandwiches, salads, and sides, the empanadas are the star of the show at this authentic Argentinian restaurant.The empanadas at Marini's are made from scratch daily and the crispy pockets come with a variety of sweet and savory fillings like traditional Argentinian chicken diablo, Texas barbecue, cheese, fresh fruit, and more.Marini's empanadas are so popular that the restaurant is currently working on being able to ship frozen ones to out-of-state fans.  A booming restaurant brand in Texas, Goode Company owns multiple locations throughout the city.Even though each spot has its own unique menu, they all serve the famous Brazos Bottom Pecan Pie, the gooiest and richest pie I've ever had. These pies are so popular that if you want to pre-order an entire one for the holiday season, you must do so months in advance. Fortunately for those who can't make it to a Goode Co. restaurant, the chain ships its pies to a number of locations around the US. In 2017, Yelp ranked Tony's as the number-one restaurant on its Top 100 Places to Eat list, and after tasting the sandwiches here, you'll see why.All of its sandwiches are made with top-of-the-line, fresh deli ingredients and crusty Italian bread and are named after Hollywood stars. I recommend you try the Lucky Luciano, which features Genoa salami, sweet Italian sausage, pepperoni, Provolone cheese, marinara sauce, and roasted red peppers. Voted as the best Thai restaurant in Houston in 2017, Thai Gourmet is located in an unassuming building off of Richmond Avenue.Open for over two decades, Thai Gourmet serves a vast selection of appetizers, soups, Thai salads, Thai noodle dishes, meat dishes, and more. The must-try dish at Thai Gourmet is for sure the Pad Thai, which can be customized to your liking.   Named after the owner's childhood pet, Barnaby's is known for being extremely dog-friendly, and all of the eatery's locations are filled with colorful pet-themed designs, like paw prints.Barnaby's serves up a bit of everything from Tex-Mex meals and pasta dishes to sandwiches and seafood, so it's the perfect place to go with a large group or if you're just not sure what you want to eat. Diced Poke has only been open since 2018 but it has already made its mark on Houston's Midtown food fans — and it was on Yelp's Top 100 Places to Eat list for 2019. The real highlight of Diced Poke's menu is its build-your-own-bowl option where diners choose their own base, protein, sauce, and toppings to create their perfect poke dish.In addition, the eatery serves pokkiritos, a poke burrito of sorts similar to sushi rolls, and delicious mochi ice cream for dessert. Another thing locals love about Diced Poke is that they validate parking for up to an hour, a rare, hot commodity in Houston's bustling Midtown. Many Houstonians are seriously passionate about crawfish and many locals like myself love ordering it from BB's Cafe because of its classic take on the popular dish. At BB's you order crawfish by the pound and you can enjoy with extra spices, butter, or crawfish sauce on the side. You can also add sausage, potatoes, and corn on the cob to your meal for a classic crawfish boil. Read More:Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
