 








        Glow Recipe Facebook
      

Does anyone else feel like their skin is at their worst during the holidays?Between endless cocktails, plates of cookies, and serious lack of sleep, skin can look tired, dull, puffy, or littered with annoying breakouts. And it's not like the cold hair or blustery winds is helping either. That's why a skin-care gift is a super thoughtful idea. Not only are you reminding them to take care of themselves, but good skin lasts way longer than a box of chocolates (though we won't say no to that either). Once they get past how gorgeous the oils and serums are, they'll realize just how effective they are at moisturizing, brightening, and nourishing skin. I personally like to use the oils on top of the serum, but this set lets them mix and layer products however they want. This set includes four popular clean skin-care products — a cleanser made with moisturizing camellia oil, a gel moisturizer that intensely hydrates, a hydrating mist that imparts a dewy finish, and a primer for a smooth canvas.  If they get regular laser facial treatments at Skin Laundry, help them keep their skin in tip-top shape between sessions with an intensely hydrating sheet mask.This is also the same mask they get after doing an Ultra Fractional facial; according to the brand, they've been tested to hydrate skin up to 24 hours after just one use and help minimize fine lines in as little as two hours. This set includes some of Drunk Elephant's best-selling skin-care products, including the T.L.C. Sukari Babyfacial, which we reviewed here. The zippered carrying case makes it easy to transport all the products too. This starter set includes Soko Glam's 10 most innovative and beloved skin-care products of 2019. The reusable tote comes with hydrating moisturizers, brightening serums, and more. Here's the full breakdown of each item.This microcurrent device can help lift and tone skin, especially around the jawline and cheeks. If you follow the brand's instructions and use it on your forehead, cheeks, and jawline, it takes around 10 minutes. I personally used this in the months leading up to my wedding and noticed that my jaw was much more defined than usual. They can do a sheet mask every night with this set. Each one has a different purpose like hydrating, brightening, clearing pores, and more. A full 2-ounce bottle of Kate Somerville's cult-favorite exfoliating treatment usually costs $85 so this is an extremely good deal.  Here's a full review of the exfoliating treatment.Everyone gets breakouts. These stick-on acne patches help deal with pimples and spots overnight, so they're gone by morning. Since the patches are clear, they can even dab some concealer on top and use them during the day.Glow Recipe's cult-favorite line of watermelon-based products are constantly sold out, so don't wait on this set. It includes a cleanser, moisturizer, and overnight mask so their skin will stay hydrated all winter long.  This set includes three different masks that hydrate, exfoliate, and plump skin. They can use them separately or together for major TLC.These overnight masks are thick, but they'll bring your lips back to life. In fact, I use a light layer during the day to keep my lips smooth and nourished; here's a full review.If they still haven't hopped on the K-beauty train, this set will convince them. It includes five of AmorePacific's efficacious anti-aging products, all formulated with powerful botanicals. This multi-purpose oil might not look fancy, but it's effective at hydrating, reducing the appearance of scars and stretch marks, and evening out skin tone.This cult-fave French cream pulls triple-duty as a primer, moisturizer, and makeup remover. The magic is in the concentrated shea butter and aloe formula that offers 24 hours of hydration and, of course, some of that French je ne sais quoi.Sand&Sky's pink clay mask may be Instagram-famous, but it's more than just selfie-ready.The mask helps draw out impurities and oil from clogged pores, while licorice evens out skin tone and vitamin C brightens. This set also thoughtfully includes a brush for easy application, a mitt to help wash off the mask, and an exfoliating treatment for extra-clogged skin. If they're looking for a whole new skin-care routine, this is a great starter set. It comes with a smart cleansing brush from Clarisonic (the OG of cleansing devices) and three best-selling Mario Badescu products — a cleansing gel, facial spray, and my personal favorite — a nourishing night cream. These two-step treatment pads are loaded with alpha-hydroxy acids like lactic, citric, and malic, and beta hydroxy acids like willow bark to exfoliate, nourish, and even out skin tone.Here's a review of why we love it so much. For those who don't play around with their anti-aging routine, try this powerful serum.It's formulated with a high concentration of naturally occurring growth factors that help improve the appearance of fine lines and uneven skin tone and texture.Rich but lightweight, this cream has been 30 years in the making. It's loaded with vitamins A, B, C, and E to help brighten and fight off damaging free radicals, and formulated without parabens, fragrances, and mineral oils.For those who are into beauty tools, this micro-roller will become a new staple in their routine. When used solo, it can help rejuvenate skin; when used with serums or oils, it can help skin absorb products better and deeper.One splash of SK-II's iconic essence will help lighten dark spots, improve radiance, and reduce the appearance of fine lines. This kit includes a brightening serum and cleanser too.I use this multipurpose balm everywhere — face, hands, cuticles, even the ends of my hair. It's super hydrating and doesn't leave behind a heavy scent or tacky feeling. In fact, I might buy a second one for myself this year.When used with the brand's masks, this innovative Bluetooth-enabled LED tool helps ingredients penetrate deeper into the skin for more efficacious results.This bright blue mask exfoliates and makes for great self-care selfies. It's made with walnut shells, papaya enzymes, bentonite clay, and kaolin clay to help get rid of dead skin and congested pores.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.