








        Credo Beauty/Instagram
      

 Credo is running its annual Friends & Family sale now through November 10, 2019, where you can save 20% on clean beauty, skin, care, body care, and more with the code STOCKUP. Every item at Credo is made without dozens of irritating and harmful ingredients like formaldehyde, aluminum powder, and more. Certain ingredients like musks are also never used because they're often not ethically or sustainably sourced. At a time when shoppers are becoming more conscious and discerning of the ingredients in products they use, Credo has become a mecca for all things clean. Made with botanicals like castor and coconut oil, this lipstick is lightweight, longlasting, and hydrating. There are eight different shades of red so you can find one that suits your skin tone best. Cut down the steps in your cleansing routine with this best-selling exfoliating cleanser. Apricot microspheres and BHA from white willow bark physically and chemically exfoliate your skin for a healthy glow and clearer complexion.This palette includes matte, shimmery, metallic, and duo-chrome eyeshadows all formulated with moisturizing coconut oil and organic shea butter. The eyeshadows are also made rose quartz powder that helps reduce the appearance of fine lines. If Kate Middleton and Meghan Markle allegedly use and swear by this oil, then you know it must be good. It's powered by a blend of omega oils, vitamins, and minerals to smoothe and nourish your skin. Although this foundation is buildable and provides medium coverage, the formula is super creamy and melts into your skin, so you'll never have a cakey or unnatural look. If you're looking for a clean perfume, check out Heretic. Its formulas are made without synthetic fragrances and instead uses essential oils and naturally-derived fragrances. This one smells like sweet figs with notes of bright grapefruit and black currant, and soft rose. Blue tansy oil gives this clarifying gel mask its intense color and exfoliating properties, while fruit enzymes help brighten skin.This facial toner is formulated with CoQ10, plant extracts, and hyaluronic acid to hydrate your skin. The spray bottle makes it easy to spritz whenever your skin needs a little boost.This buildable cream concealer comes in a variety of undertones to match your skin for seamless coverage. It's also made with jojoba seed oil to moisturize.These eye gels contain cactus collagen to help reduce puffiness, aloe vera and vitamins C and E to help decrease the appearance of fine lines, and arbutin to help lighten the appearance of dark circles. This cleansing oil gets rid of makeup and hydrates skin at the same time to help streamline your routine. The pump bottle is convenient and prevents the oil from spilling all over your hands or bathroom counter.Keep your hair healthy with this shampoo, conditioner, and leave-in conditioner set that cleanses, moisturizes, and nourishes.   Define, lengthen, and volumize lashes with this award-winning organic mascara. It's formulated with antibacterial botanicals and is safe for sensitive eyes.Sunscreen is a crucial part of any skin-care routine and this non-greasy moisturizing formula is packed with SPF 30 and doubles as a makeup primer too.  Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.