The European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE) published an update of its Gender Equality Index last week, which analyzes the progress of the 28 countries of the European Union (EU) in terms of gender equality. The EIGE report revealed that "the European Union is moving towards gender equality at a snail's pace." Virginija Langbakk, the director of the institute, said: "We are moving in the right direction, but we are still far from the finish line."To carry out this study, the EIGE measured the efforts made in seven main areas: work, money, health, knowledge, time (the balance between household and leisurely tasks), power and violence. Each country is then scored using a point system on a scale from 1 to 100. The European Union as a whole obtained an average score of 67.4 out of 100, which is only 5.4 more than in 2005, and 1.2 more than in 2015.Greece and Hungary were ranked at the bottom with a score of 51.2 and 51.9 out of 100 respectively. Gender equality in the European Union is more respected in the areas of health (88.1 points) and money (80.4 points). As far as power is concerned, the EU is still far from equality (51.9 points), although this is the area that has made the most progress since the last report.Here are the 10 European Union countries that obtained the highest score on the gender equality index in 2019.Between 2005 and 2017, Luxembourg's points have increased by 4.8 points, although it is progressing towards gender quality at a much slower pace than most EU countries. It is among the countries with the lowest wage inequality, and its greatest improvements are in the domains of power.Spain's ranking hasn't changed since 2005. Gender equality is most pronounced in the domain of health, with a whopping 90.1 points. But it has a major inequality in the domain of power — only 40% of its parliament is female. This, however, is still an increase of 16.1 points from 2005.Belgium has the lowest wage gap in all of Europe. It is now 1.1 percent, which is less than a third of what it was in 2007. Its overall index is 3.7 higher than that of the EU. It's stronger areas include money and power.With 71.3 points, Ireland has improved it's ranking by three places since 2005. It is showing faster progress than most EU member states and is particularly developing in health.In the Netherlands, a 25-year-old Emancipation policy strives to achieve equality in all fields, including employment, education and private life. However, trafficking of women, prostitution and domestic violence still remain issues of concern.Although the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union, it is still included in the 2019 gender equality index. Coming in 5th place, the country scored highest in the domains of health and money. While there is still inequality in domains of power, the UK has seen improvement since 2005.Finland's highest marks were in the domains of health and money, where's progress has stalled when it comes to employment. The country has dropped one ranking since 2005 and is progressing at a much slower pace than other EU Member states.France is in third place with 74.6 points out of 100 and has moved up two places from last year. It is the country that's made the most progress in terms of equality between 2005 and 2017, especially in the field of power.Denmark, like a lot of its Scandinavian neighbors, has an impressive record on gender equality— especially in the workplace. At 70.8%, Danish women have one of the highest employment rates in Europe.Maintaining its rank since 2005, Sweden remains at the top of the list. This might not seem so surprising, as the Nordic country has consistently excelled in enforcing gender equality across all areas of society, including health, labor, and political power. While Sweden has not had a female Prime Minister yet, women constitute 41% of its government.
                                This post has been translated from French.
                              Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
