This year, many celebrity pairs decided to take their costume game up a notch by coordinating their outfit with their partner or friend. Here are some of the best celebrity couples costumes from Halloween 2019.








        David Burtka and Neil Patrick Harris dressed up for Halloween 2019.
      
Gotham / Contributor

This year, the famous actor-designer couple attended Heidi Klum's Halloween party while dressed up as fellow Hollywood royalty, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen. In the past, the couple and their kids have dressed up as iconic Disney rides, famous cartoon characters, and even iconic artists. 
A post shared by LIVE with Kelly and Ryan (@livekellyandryan)Oct 28, 2019 at 12:54pm PDT
 Earlier this week, daytime talk-show host Kelly Ripa reposted a photo from the "Live with Ryan and Kelly" Instagram account that teased show's upcoming Halloween special. In the photo, the show's team is dressed up in detailed "Addams Family" costumes, including Ryan Seacrest as Pugsley, production manager Art Moore as Uncle Fester, and executive producer Michael Gelman as Lurch.Kelly Ripa is featured in the photo dressed as both Morticia and Wednesday Addams, showing off the characters' signature hairstyles and makeup looks. Her husband, Mark Consuelos, dressed as Gómez Addams, complete with an iconic mustache and striped suit. 








        Jessica Biel and Justin Timberlake dressed up for Halloween.
      
Michael Kovac/Getty Images for Casamigos

During a recent appearance on "The Tonight Show," actress Jessica Biel admitted that she was "not a huge fan" of her husband's iconic pop group *NSYNC.The comments ended up leading to a pretty hilarious costume — on Saturday, she showed her support for Timberlake's boyband days by dressing up in one of Timberlake's iconic '90s looks for the Casamigos Halloween party. Complete with a curly, blonde wig, a metallic jumpsuit, white sneakers, and tinted sunglasses, Biel certainly paid homage to Timberlake when he was in *NSYNC. "This is what happens when you admit on TV that you don't know any NSYNC songs and you're married to @justintimberlake," she wrote on Instagram. "Well played, husband, well played."To top off the costume, Timberlake went as a giant microphone. A post shared by  Heidi Klum (@heidiklum) on Oct 25, 2019 at 12:33am PDTOct 25, 2019 at 12:33am PDT
 Fans will have to wait for the official reveal of model and Halloween-legend Heidi Klum's 2019 outfit, but for now, they can get inspired by her and her husband, German guitarist Tom Kaulitz, and their sparkling look. On Instagram, Klum posted a series of photos of her kissing her husband while covered completely in glowing glitter. In the photos, both Klum and Kaulitz have neon-green paint in their hair, too. 
“And sit together, now and forever. For it is plain, as anyone can see. We're simply meant to be." Actress Vanessa Hudgens and her longtime partner actor Austin Butler never disappoint with their couple costumes. This year, it appears they had multiple looks inspired by some of the best spooky films. "The Christmas Prince" star posted a photo of her and Butler dressed as Jack Skellington and Sally from the hit Halloween film "The Nightmare Before Christmas." Butler shared photos of the two dressed up in spooky-looking makeup, too.A post shared by  Austin Butler (@austinbutler) on Nov 1, 2017 at 3:30am PDTNov 1, 2017 at 3:30am PDT
 A post shared by  Nina Dobrev (@nina) on Oct 27, 2019 at 1:09pm PDTOct 27, 2019 at 1:09pm PDT
 Earlier this month, a French YouTuber crashed the Chanel Spring 2020 fashion-show runway, and model Gigi Hadid confronted the woman, leading to photos that quickly went viral. To pay homage to the moment,  "The Vampire Diaries" star Nina Dobrev posted a photo of her runway-crasher costume fans. Dobrev and her friend Lane Cheek dressed as the runway crasher and Hadid, respectively, and they even recreated some of the photos from the encounter. 
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA HAPPY HALLOWEEN I PROMISE WERE DONE NOWA post shared by  tanamongeau (@tanamongeau) on Oct 30, 2019 at 10:12pm PDTOct 30, 2019 at 10:12pm PDT
 YouTube couple Tana Mongeau and Jake Paul, who recently got married although Mongeau said their marriage isn't legally binding, dressed up as "the people who saved [their] careers."Mongeau donned a look from makeup mogul and YouTuber Jeffree Star and Paul wore an outfit inspired by YouTuber Shane Dawson.Paul's shirt is one that Dawson wears in most of his videos and he's also holding a stuffed cat that resembles Dawson's cat, Cheeto. Plus, Mongeau is wearing a sweatsuit covered in Star's logo. Both YouTubers have recently been featured in series on Dawson's YouTube channel. 








        Even Peters and Halsey dressed up as Sonny and Cher.
      
Rachel Luna/FilmMagic)

Following a month of relationship reports, singer Halsey and "American Horror Story" actor Evan Peters attended the 100th-episode celebration of "American Horror Story" dressed as Sonny and Cher. Halsey wore a wig to recreate Cher's signature long, black hair and Peters wore a fake, Sonny Bono-inspired mustache and wig. The pair's matching polka-dot outfits completed the look, giving off major '70s vibes. A post shared by  Sofia Richie (@sofiarichie) on Nov 1, 2019 at 12:49am PDTNov 1, 2019 at 12:49am PDT
 The fairly new couple shared an Instagram post of the two of them wearing retro looks inspired by the iconic Barbie and Ken dolls.Sofia Richie nailed the look with a black-and-white swimsuit and Scott Disick rocked blonde hair for his costume, pairing it with a vintage-looking red-and-white top. 
Jay & BeyA post shared by  Ciara (@ciara) on Oct 30, 2019 at 5:10am PDTOct 30, 2019 at 5:10am PDT
 Singer Ciara and her husband, NFL quarterback Russell Wilson, went all out for their Beyoncé and Jay-Z costumes this Halloween. As seen on Ciara's Instagram, the pair recreated Bey and Jay's iconic looks from their "APES**T" music video.In addition to wearing Beyonce and Jay-Z's hot-pink and bright-blue suits, the couple posed for a detailed photoshoot inspired by the video. Ciara and Wilson even recreated part of the music video itself by lip-syncing to the song.They added their own spin to their photos by standing in front of a portrait of Barack and Michelle Obama instead of the Mona Lisa that's shown in the original video. A post shared by  dean michael unglert (@deanie_babies) on Oct 27, 2019 at 12:02am PDTOct 27, 2019 at 12:02am PDT
 Viewers watched the drama unfold as "Bachelor" franchise stars Dean Unglert and Caelynn Miller-Keyes had their ups and downs together on "Bachelor in Paradise" — but it's clear the couple doesn't take themselves too seriously.This year, the pair dressed up as parody-style stereotypes of each other for Halloween. Miller-Keyes dressed up as Unglert by wearing a beanie and a tie-dye shirt. She also wore a fake mustache and carried a toy van, referencing the two things she said she disliked about him during the couple's brief breakup on the show — the fact that he grew a mustache and that he lived in his van. Unglert dressed as Miller-Keyes by wearing a dress, heels, plastic tiara, and a sash that said "Mrs. Underwood" — a nod to Miller-Keyes' opening-night outfit when she appeared on Colton Underwood's season of "The Bachelor."A post shared by  Miley Cyrus (@mileycyrus) on Oct 31, 2019 at 9:31pm PDTOct 31, 2019 at 9:31pm PDT
 A fairly new couple, musicians Miley Cyrus and Cody Simpson even shared photos of them getting ready for Halloween.Cyrus and Simpson dressed up as musician Billy Idol and his former love interest dancer Perri Lister, respectively. Their looks consisted of black leather and studs and Cyrus even donned a black wig. 
A post shared by Jenna Fischer (@msjennafischer)Oct 31, 2019 at 5:33pm PDT
 "The Office" star Jenna Fischer and her husband Lee Kirk channeled a popular reality show by dressing up as "Great British Bake Off" stars Mary Berry and Paul Hollywood, respectively.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
