








        Flipbelt/Business Insider
      

Running is one of those sports that doesn't require a lot of things outside of a good pair of running shoes, but there is plenty of gear out there that can make the sport even more enjoyable. For example, if you want to carry anything on your run (phone, ID, money, etc.) you'll need a place to put these things. After all, it definitely isn't convenient to carry anything when you're trying to log some miles. While some may slip things into their running shoes or the waistband of their shorts for safekeeping, this isn't the most secure or ideal way to carry your items with you. If you want to carry anything on your run, a good running belt can be a useful piece of gear to have. To ensure that you find the best running belt for your needs, there are a few things you need to take into consideration.No matter what your needs are, you'll want a belt that fits you comfortably, and one that will stay securely in place with minimal bouncing. The best gear is the kind that you don't have to think about while running because it's comfortable and doing its job. With so many factors to consider before making a purchase, and all the options that exist, you may feel tempted to leave everything at home, but not to worry — We've done the research for you, comparing belts and sifting through the reviews to determine five running belts that are worth adding to your running arsenal. Updated on 10/28/2019 by Mara Leighton: Updated prices and formatting. We are currently testing new products, so we'll update this guide soon.The SPIbelt was born when a woman named Kim Overton was running with a key tucked into her sports bra. She realized that there had to be a better, more comfortable way to carry small personal items (which is what "SPI" stands for). Having done the same exact thing myself with the key to my apartment, it's no wonder that this thought came to mind. A sports bra seems like a fine vehicle for carrying a few small items at the beginning of a run … but by the end, I can guarantee that all you will be thinking about are the items you chose to put there. Not pleasant. If you're looking for a reliable every day running belt, the SPIbelt has gotten top reviews. There are a few different styles, including the original SPIbelt, as well as a large pocket SPIbelt that will hold larger phones like the iPhone 7 Plus or the Galaxy Note 5. This reviewer found it to be the perfect solution since they didn't want to carry their phone but also didn't like running with an armband. If you have a smaller phone or don't need to carry many items on you, the original SPIbelt is slightly less expensive and just as comfortable. The belt itself is expandable and adjustable on both models, fitting up to a 47-inch waist. The pocket may look tiny, but it will expand as needed for the items you want to carry. Most reviewers had no issues with the belt bouncing while they were running or working out, even while carrying multiple items. While many running belts only come in one color or style, the SPIbelt goes an extra step further with plenty of colors and designs to choose from so you can find the perfect one to coordinate with the rest of your running wardrobe. Having a reliable running belt beats trying to tuck your items into a sports bra, waistband, or those tiny pockets that are often built into running shorts that usually look like they couldn't hold a single quarter — let alone hold it securely. Seemingly simple inventions like the SPIbelt can have a huge impact on the quality of your run. Convenience and comfort are the true winners when it comes to high-quality running gear, and the SPIbelt provides both. Pros: Comfortable, bounce resistant, adjustable belt, expandable pocketCons: Not water resistantIf the idea of wearing anything resembling a fanny pack makes you cringe and you find armbands uncomfortable, you may want to consider the FlipBelt. It's simple design almost makes it look like a waistband, and allows it to fit snugly, with no bulging pouches. The belt has multiple openings where you can insert anything you'd like to run with, including cash, credit cards, energy gels, keys, and even your smartphone. This writer from Huffington Post loved that it gave her the perfect way to run with her phone while being able to carry all the other things she wanted to bring with her. As a bonus, the belt even has a key hook built in for extra security — because finding yourself locked out of your home or car after a long run is not fun. The cursing that follows when the realization hits that you're locked out and you've lost your key isn't the greatest way to cool down (I speak from experience). Once you've loaded up the belt, it gets flipped over so the slits are on the inside, further ensuring that nothing will fall out during your run. It should be noted that the belt isn't water resistant, but its material is sweat wicking and comfortable enough to wear directly against your skin if you did want to wear it under your shirt. The FlipBelt comes in multiple colors, many of which are great for added visibility while you're out running. It also comes in multiple sizes, from XX-Small (18 to 21 inches) and XX-Large (40 to 48 inches). Some reviewers disliked that the only way to get the belt on and off is to pull it up like you would a pair of shorts and had trouble with it riding up slightly while running, but others appreciated the minimal design, and found that it allowed the belt to fit securely while both walking and running. As simple as it is, the current price of the FlipBelt is on the pricier side. However, if you're willing to pay a little extra, it's well worth the convenience it provides — even allowing you to go without additional gear like an armband. Pros: Tubular pocket design allows it to hold more items, comes in multiple colors and sizes, comfortable sweat-wicking material, key hook for extra securityCons: Not water resistant, some reviewers had trouble with the belt riding up, some reviewers didn't like having to slip the belt on and off, on the more expensive side As an owner of the 12 oz. Fitletic Hydration belt, I can attest to its comfort, durability, and ease of use. I purchased my belt while training for the Boilermaker last summer, and it helped me get through many long, hot training runs. If you're looking for even more water capacity for especially long runs, the Fitletic also comes in a 16 oz. version. Both designs feature two bottles nestled in quick-draw water holsters. There is a bungee cord loop that holds the bottles in place when you don't need them but makes them easy to remove when you need a quick sip. The zippered pouch is large enough to hold most smartphones and has an interior pocket to keep other items like an ID or cash secure. This is also a great race day belt, thanks to the exterior energy gel loops and the integrated toggles to keep your bib number in place. The neoprene pocket is both water and sweat resistant, keeping your items dry even as you're leaving it all on the race course with the finish in sight.In addition to the features above, I also like the fact that this belt has reflective details for added safety. It also comes in quite a few different color schemes. The Small/Medium size fits waists from 24 to 34 inches and the Large/Extra Large size fits waists from 35 to 42 inches. Personally, I had no issues with fit, and the belt stayed securely in place on my runs with minimal bouncing. It was comfortable enough that I decided to race with it as well — a decision I didn't regret, as I could carry my phone on me, and didn't have to take any extra time at the water stops. I did notice on a few runs that if I filled the bottles to the top there was some leakage, but this was remedied by leaving a little bit of space at the top of each bottle. This still gave me more than enough water to hydrate with on my longer runs. Overall, Fitletic receives positive reviews for their gear, and their hydration belt was no exception. Most reviewers loved the secure fit, the added features like the bib number toggles, and its lightweight and comfortable feel. Pros: Comfortable fit with no bouncing, bottles are easy to get in and out of holsters, zippered pocket is water resistant, designated places for energy gels, toggles for easy race bib attachmentCons: Some leakage when bottles are all the way full, has a smaller range of sizes compared to other belts, on the more expensive sideIf you're not a fan of the way an armband feels, but you want something both extra durable and comfortable to carry your phone and other personal items, you should check out the Kona pouch. This running belt was inspired by the Ironman Triathlon World Championships in Kona, Hawaii — in other words, it's designed to be tough. As a result, it's water-resistant, and the pouch is designed to protect your items from dirt, sand, and sweat. The belt also comes with a waterproof 'Joey' pouch that can be nestled inside of the water resistant one for added protection against the elements. In the case of the Kona, durability is coupled with comfort thanks to the breathable fabric, its lightweight (weighing in at 2.6 oz.), and seamless design. The pouch is sleek, yet expandable. It fits close to your body for minimal bouncing, and it's big enough to fit personal items as well as your smartphone. The Wirecutter praises the Kona for its ability to fit phones of all sizes, so even if you do upgrade your phone or switch to a larger phone, you won't need to upgrade your running belt. The Kona can also fit a large range of waist sizes, with the ability to adjust from 27 to 52 inches.Some reviewers did think it was difficult to access their phone while running, finding it hard to use the zipper one-handed. Others wished that the pouch was split into two different compartments to separate their other personal items from their phone. Overall though, reviewers loved that this running belt is water-resistant and found it to be a great alternative to an armband for carrying a phone. In addition, the lightweight feel of the belt was much appreciated and made it possible for most to forget they were even wearing a running belt—a true sign of an effective piece of running gear.Pros: Water resistant, comes with an additional waterproof pouch, lightweight and comfortable, minimal bouncing, durable seamless design, adjustable beltCons: Difficult to access phone while running, some wished the pouch had separate compartmentsIf you take your phone on runs and workouts, you need a comfortable, secure armband to hold it. Running doesn't require a lot of equipment, but a good pair of running shoes is a must-have to prevent injury. The pair of running shoes you choose can either make or break your running experience. Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.