
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
If there's one thing we've seen across all carriers this year, it's been them doing their part to hype up 5G. 5G is the next evolution of 4G LTE wireless data, offering substantially faster download and upload speeds.The potential for 5G is very exciting, but right now, it's still quite limited for the areas and devices that actually support it.Buy one Galaxy S10 or Note 10 and get one free at VerizonTaking a look through the AC forums, here's what some of our members think about the next-gen standard for wireless networks.I bought the 5G model of the Note 10 plus because it should have been already rolled out in my neighbourhood, after being in contact with my carrier/provider a couple of times I ended up kinda accepting that it just wasn't enabled yet here.
Then today I brought a friend to a store 2 miles away to buy a new laptop and when I went to check the time on my phone I saw the little 5G where 4G normally...from the 5G videos I've seen it looks like you have to be right up on the node for it to work. Literally turn a corner and you're back to 4G. Seems like it works more like a home WiFi router than a cell network.You would be correct in that assessment. Since 5G uses millimeter wave radios, things like walls, buildings, and distance affect it more than the longer wavelength systems like 3G and 4G.
That is the single biggest challenge of deploying 5G. The sheer amount of repeaters needed to provide appropriate coverage in an area. Cities are charging the carriers per pole for installing 5G antennas. ...Don't buy it yet. Not enough infrastructure on ground.All of this discussion got us to thinking — Have you been able to use a 5G network yet?Join the conversation in the forums!
We may earn a commission for purchases using our links. Learn more.
CAD-based renders of the OnePlus 8 Lite have been leaked online, giving us an early look at OnePlus' first mid-range smartphone in four years.Whether you're a Star Wars fan or not, this Star Wars-themed Galaxy Note 10+ is pretty sweet. From the design, the packaging, and the accessories, it's a great collaboration that's up for pre-order now.Google is adding the ability to add to and create lists through your Assistant with Google Keep as well as other popular note-keeping services.The Moto One Action could end up being one of the company's better smartphones in recent memory, but you'll definitely want to keep it protected. Here are the best cases for the One Action in 2019.