



Editor's note: Good news! We have an updated list of games that are launching on November 19th. Check them out here.We’ve told you a lot about Stadia this year, how it’ll change the way you play games on your TVs, laptops, desktops and select phones and tablets. In our Stadia Connect videos, we’ve previewed some of the games that are coming to Stadia, and now we’re happy to share which games you’ll be able to play on November 19th 2019, and through the rest of the year.  We’re launching Stadia with 12 carefully-chosen games on day one, and an additional 14 will  be available by the end of the year.  There’s something for everyone here: a library of superb, critically-acclaimed titles spanning multiple genres and age ratings. Below you’ll see the full list of games available on November 19th, as well as games that will become available later in November and December. Whether you bought Founder’s Edition or Premiere Edition you get a three-month subscription to Stadia Pro on us, where you can play Destiny 2: The Collection. If you’re looking to purchase and play games on November 19th, you can browse and buy them from the Stadia app. Here is our expected line-up:Assassin’s Creed OdysseyDestiny 2: The CollectionGYLTJust Dance 2020KineMortal Kombat 11 Red Dead Redemption 2ThumperTomb Raider: Definitive Edition, Rise of the Tomb Raider, Shadow of the Tomb Raider: Definitive Edition, SAMURAI SHODOWNThough we’re starting out on day one with the games above, there are more to come. Throughout the rest of 2019 we’ll be adding more titles*:Attack on Titan 2: Final BattleBorderlands 3Darksiders GenesisDRAGON BALL XENOVERSE 2Farming Simulator 19FINAL FANTASY XVFootball Manager 2020Ghost Recon BreakpointGRIDMetro ExodusNBA 2K20RAGE 2Trials RisingWolfenstein: YoungbloodThere are many more titles coming to Stadia including Doom: Eternal, WatchDogs: Legion, Gods & Monsters and Cyberpunk 2077. Expect regular updates on Keyword with the rest of the titles coming to Stadia. You can follow Stadia on Twitter, YouTube, and Facebook for even more news on upcoming games and features. *Dates Subject to Change
              Follow Us
            