What's cuter than one panda? Twin pandas!Zoo Berlin just released new photos of a set of twin panda cubs that are growing up at the German zoo. According to a zoo press release, the as-yet-unnamed cubs were born one hour apart on August 31 to mother Meng Meng — and are the first panda cubs born in a German zoo.








        One of Zoo Berlin's new panda cubs.
      
Zoo Berlin

"Meng Meng and her two cubs coped well with the birth and are all in good health," said veterinarian and Zoo and Tierpark director Dr Andreas Knieriem at the time.








        One of the new panda cubs at Zoo Berlin.
      
Zoo Berlin

"Even though these are the first offspring born to our young female panda, she is already doing a wonderful job as a mum."Born pink with fine white down fur and large tails, the twin cubs have been growing quickly, gaining thicker fur in the black and white pattern pandas are famous for.








        Zoo Berlin's new twin panda cubs.
      
Zoo Berlin

In October, the cubs opened their eyes for the first time."We are thrilled that the two pandas are developing so well," said Dr Knieriem in another Zoo Berlin press release at the time."We have been referring to them as 'big one' and 'little one,' but thanks to Meng Meng's nourishing milk the two siblings are now almost the same size and weight. They both weigh around two kilograms (4.4 pounds), and they are about 30 centimeters (12 inches) long, respectively."








        The twin panda cubs' mother, Meng Meng.
      
Tobias Schwarz/AFP via Getty Images

According to The Guardian, the twin panda cubs will live with mother Meng Meng and father Jiao Qing in Berlin until about four years after they are weaned off Meng Meng's milk. They will then move to China, where pandas natively come from. To help draw attention to the importance of wildlife conservation, Zoo Berlin is also maintaining a regular blog documenting the pandas' lives. Spoiler: it's absolutely adorable.








        One of Zoo Berlin's new twin panda cubs.
      
Zoo Berlin

Read more:A sloth crossing the road and monkeys munching on McDonald's are some of the year's best nature photosThis very good dog in Arizona will be a puppy for life due to a rare conditionA Komodo dragon hit the beach wearing a turtle as a hat, and there's video evidenceA monkey with a face like a human has been single for 19 years, but zookeepers say it's because he's a bit of a jerkAn awkwardly timed photo of an adorable lion cub is the funniest animal photo of 2019Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
