2019 was a big year for beauty YouTubers.Some makeup moguls found themselves facing online drama, while others gave fans an inside look at the beauty industry. Many YouTubers also focused on creating traditional beauty videos, like tutorials, makeovers, and experiments.From a Jeffree Star review to James Charles' Spanish makeup tutorial, here are YouTube's top 25 beauty videos of the year. Throughout the YouTube video, 3-year-old Elle gives her mother a makeover while her father films the transformation. Since being posted in January, the video has received more than 299,000 likes and more than seven million views at the time of publication. It shows her trying different hairstyling hacks, including one that involves applying 100 layers of hairspray. At the time of writing, her experiment has received over 313,000 likes and 4.4 million views. In July, YouTuber Pebbi Lieyanti visited what she considers to be the worst salon in her city, and filmed her makeover experience for a video titled "PERGI KE SALON TERBURUK DI KOTA KU! SEBURUK ITU KAH?" (roughly translated to "Go to the worst salon in my city! What is that work?")It's been viewed more than 13.7 million times, and received over 310,000 likes at the time of writing. Though Nikkie de Jager is known for her in-depth tutorials, she decided to hand the mic over to rapper Snoop Dogg in April. The musician narrated her video, and added comical commentary throughout.Their collaboration video has been viewed more than 4.2 million times, and has received more than 313,000 likes at the time of publication. This video was shared in April by beauty YouTuber AlexandrasGirlyTalk. She discusses underrated skin-care tips throughout the video, and recommends everything from frequently washing your pillowcases to using vitamin C products.At the time of writing, it has more than 4.8 million views, and has been liked more than 318,000 times. Emma Chamberlain is known for her laid-back lifestyle videos, so it's no surprise that one of her beauty transformations made it onto YouTube's list. This video from May has been watched over 6.3 million times, and also has more than 321,000 likes. In March, 123 GO! Spanish shared a video titled 7 TRUCOS DE BELLEZA PARA ACELERAR TU RUTINA DIARIA (roughly translated to "7 beauty tricks to accelerate your beauty routine"). Over 26 million people have watched the video and more than 357,000 have given it a thumbs-up at the time of writing. It's since been watched more than four million times, and has gotten over 341,000 likes from viewers. With more than 6.2 million views and over 356,000 likes to date, this video from Katie Angel made it onto YouTube's list. It's titled 24 HORAS CON UÑAS EXTRA LARGAS!!! ACCIDENTE DOLOROSO! TERMINA MAL! (which roughly translates to "24 hours with extra-long nails!!! Painful accident! End evil!"). Jamaican YouTuber Viv HairTherapy created this video in March, and used more than 900 hairpins to create the curled style seen at the end. Viewers seemed to love the video, as it's been watched over 10 million times with more than 354,000 likes at the time of writing. YouTuber Antonio Garza started off 2019 by sharing this video in which they try to create "a better version" of themselves through beauty products. Their video has since been viewed more than 5.8 million times, and liked by over 348,000 users. In July, Vogue shared this video in which Khloe Kardashian does her makeup alongside her daughter True. She mainly uses products from Kylie Cosmetics and KKW Beauty.Since being uploaded, Kardashian's beauty routine has been watched more than 12 million times. It's also been liked by more than 353,000 people at the time of writing. The only announcement video featured on YouTube's beauty list is Simply Nailogical's Holo Taco reveal. The video shows YouTuber Christine Rotenberg announcing her first-ever nail-polish line, which was inspired by her mispronunciation of the word "topcoat."It's since been watched more than 4.7 million times with more than 363,000 likes. In August, Jenna Marbles gave herself a makeover using products from Claire's. In her video, she said she wanted to see how many '90s trends she could "get away with" wearing as a woman in her 30s.The 14-minute-long video has now been viewed over 6.6 million times. More than 384,000 people have also liked it.  The 10th most-popular beauty video on YouTube's list was created by Brazilian influencer Franciny Ehlke. In her video, titled TRANSFORMEI UMA FÃ PRA VALER! (roughly translated to "I turned a fan for real!"), the YouTuber gives one of her fans a makeover, including a shopping spree and trip to the hair salon.At the time of writing, the video has more than 3.2 million views and over 405,000 likes.)Known for her quirky beauty and fashion experiments, YouTuber Safiya Nygaard decided to melt every drugstore lipstick together in June. She previously melted every lipstick from Sephora together in 2018.The more recent video has been viewed over 11 million times. More than 399,000 people have also given it a thumbs up. As a long-time fan of Jennifer Lopez, Tati Westbrook invited the musician's makeup artist Scott Barnes to appear in one of her YouTube videos. He gave the YouTuber Lopez's famous glow, and also shared some insight into his beauty career.With more than 400,000 likes, Westbrook's video has now been viewed over 9.6 million times. As a challenge, Mexican YouTuber Kimberly Loaiza attempted to do her makeup without using a mirror in October. She titled the video ME MAQUILLO SIN ESPEJO (which roughly translates to "Makeup Without Mirror").The 31-minute-long video has now been watched more than 8.5 million times, and has received over 444,000 likes. At the start of the year, Brazilian YouTuber Mari Maria gave a makeover to Huda Kattan, the founder of Huda Beauty. She described Kattan as her idol throughout the video, and said she felt extremely "nervous" to do her makeup.With more than 8.1 million subscribers, Maria's video has been viewed more than three million times. It's also received more than 454,000 likes. Throughout this video — which was uploaded in January — two YouTubers share hacks to help remove acne, moisturize skin, and keep hair looking healthy. It's been viewed more than 9.6 million times, with over 560,000 likes. In June, Jeffree Star and Shane Dawson reviewed Kylie Jenner's first batch of skin-care products from her brand, Kylie Skin. Their video shocked viewers, as both YouTubers described the items as being "basic."At the time of writing, the review has been watched more than 26 million times, and has been liked by over 1.1 million users. Kylie Jenner showcased everything from her massive fitting room to her numerous cars in the video, and also incorporated appearances from her daughter Stormi.Though she doesn't talk much about beauty in the video, she does visit the Kylie Cosmetics offices. Her video has been viewed over 34 million times, and has received more than 1.3 million likes. In October, Shane Dawson began his docu-series with Jeffree Star. The seven-part series detailed the creation of their collaboration makeup line, from drawing-board ideas to the actual launch day.Two months later, the first video in the series has been viewed more than 25 million times. It's also gotten over 1.4 million likes at the time of writing. In March, James Charles surprised his fans when he revealed that he can speak fluent Spanish. According to the YouTuber, he first learned the language while attending a private elementary school, and later improved his skills when living with his best friend's family, who is Mexican.The video now sits at the No. 1 spot one YouTube's top beauty video list, as it's received over 17 million views and more than 1.6 million likes at the time of writing.Like what you see here? Subscribe to our daily newsletter to get more of it.
Sign-Up
