Five people have been confirmed dead in a volcanic eruption that shook New Zealand's White Island on Monday afternoon.The active volcano, which is also known Whakaari, is situated off the east coast of New Zealand's North Island, and is accessible to tourists via guide boat. Both overseas visitors and locals are believed to have been caught up in the explosion.Police are still working to determine exactly how many people were affected, and how many remain on the island. At the time of writing, authorities have said fewer than 50 people are believed to have been on or near it at the time the eruption took place.Police can confirm five people are now confirmed to have died in the White Island volcanic eruption. Our sincere condolences are with their family and friends.A number of people have been injured and taken to hospital.MORE HERE: https://t.co/cwNnNFcNa3 pic.twitter.com/FyVekb8sG5— New Zealand Police (@nzpolice) December 9, 2019Footage and images of the eruption, some of which were taken by tourists who had only just left the volcano, have been widely shared on Twitter.SEE ALSO: Blade Runner 2019: Smoke from terrifying 'ring of fire' turns Sydney's skies apocalypse redU.S. visitor Michael Shade wrote that he'd left the island "20 minutes before" the eruption took place. He posted footage from a boat that shows a thick curtain of grey-black smoke concealing the volcano.My god, White Island volcano in New Zealand erupted today for first time since 2001. My family and I had gotten off it 20 minutes before, were waiting at our boat about to leave when we saw it. Boat ride home tending to people our boat rescued was indescribable. #whiteisland pic.twitter.com/QJwWi12Tvt— Michael Schade (@sch) December 9, 2019Another video posted by Schade shows people queuing to board a boat in order to leave the island, while smoke from the eruption rises in the background.pic.twitter.com/NcFiCWi2Yf— Michael Schade (@sch) December 9, 2019"Those are some of the poeple put [sic] boat picked up," he wrote. "Praying for them and their recovery. Woman my mom tended to was in critical condition but seemed strong by the end."Schade then shared another video of a helicopter on the island, which appears to have damaged blades.Those are some of the people put boat picked up. Praying for them and their recovery. Woman my mom tended to was in critical condition but seemed strong by the end.The helicopters on the island looked destroyed: pic.twitter.com/jds5QBD1yg— Michael Schade (@sch) December 9, 2019Schade shared footage of his own tour group, standing at the edge of the crater "not 30 minutes before" the eruption.This is so hard to believe. Our whole tour group were literally standing at the edge of the main crater not 30 minutes before. My thoughts with the families of those currently unaccounted for, the people recovering now, and especially the rescue workers… pic.twitter.com/mn704hobRk— Michael Schade (@sch) December 9, 2019He went on to post photos taken from their boat, including White Island tour operators travelling to the island to rescue people.Checked photo timestamps. Last photo from me standing on the land was 13:49; this first photo of the eruption was 14:12, about a minute or two into the eruption. pic.twitter.com/hyqQuO4vNq— Michael Schade (@sch) December 9, 2019Last photos: here are the White Island Tour operators rescuing people, timestamp 14:24 (~12-14 minutes after eruption). Endless gratitude to that crew for stepping up as first responders.I took these and reporters welcome to use with attribution. pic.twitter.com/ITmY1jCezr— Michael Schade (@sch) December 9, 2019"I know there will be a huge amount of concern and anxiety for those who have loved ones at the island at that time — and I can assure them police are doing everything they can," New Zealand prime minister Jacinda Ardern said in a statement, per the BBC. Updates are being issued through the official New Zealand police force's Twitter account, and anyone unable to contact loved ones can register them as missing through the Family Links website.