Iran is frequently the subject of intense international news coverage, be it political tensions with the US over broken trade agreements, oil tanker crises, or recent nationwide protests.What we don't often see is how ordinary people live in the Islamic Republic. People go to work, socialize, and generally live a pretty normal existence. Here's a look into everyday life in the country, based on my own personal experiences.The pictures in this article were taken largely during two trips to Iran in March and August 2019, prior to the start of recent protests in the country.  This photo — often seen illustrating US news coverage of Iran — is not a particularly typical scene, and has drawn criticism for being overused and misleading.A meal shared with friends at Japanese restaurant Kenzo in Vanak, Tehran. When complete, it will have more than 15 million square feet of floor space.That's three times the size of the biggest US mall, Minnesota's Mall of America, which is 4.8 million square feet.According to global travel website Atlas Obscura, the mall will have a mixture of retail stores, cultural centers, public spaces, car parking, and also a hotel.   The sign painted on the television says 'read books instead,' which is funny considering it is located right next to the cinema museum.   "1984" is at the back on the right.This store is in the affluent Pasdaran neighborhood.The rest of the titles are mostly self-help and psychology.Lots of storefronts have logos using English words — like with Sahar Bakery here.Sahar Bakery is best-known for its many types of bread.According to the shop's website the company was started in 1971 and there are now a total of 11 branches across Tehran and in Mazandaran, a nearby region.'Zamin' translates to earth in Persian and is the first all-vegan restaurant in Tehran. Facebook and Twitter, probably the most widespread networks in the UK and US, are difficult to access in Iran.Mirza Ghasemi (bottom right) is traditionally made with tomato and eggs, which were replaced in this recipe with what tasted like aubergine. Kashke Bademjan (top right) is a smoked aubergine dish usually mixed in with kashk - a milk product. This was replaced with a soya-based milk substitute instead. Both dishes are served with bread.   The shrine houses the tomb of Imamzadeh Saleh, the son of the revered 8th-Century Imam Musa al-Kadhim. The shimmering walls are thanks to a traditional craft called ayne-kari, a mosaic of mirrors, which extends across the whole building.Most Iranians have Thursday and Friday as their weekend.Although its ordinary to have a two-day weekend, some people have a six-day week with only Friday off.Part of the water feature on the left looks like a beehive.It was once an old village, but now functions as one of the most popular destinations for people needing an escape from city life.  As per the advertisements hanging in the shop, a kilo of Askari grapes are 16,500 toman ($1.50), yellow plumbs are 17,500 toman ($1.60) and white nectarines are going for 25,900 toman ($2.35) a kilo.    According to the latest report from the Statistical Center of Iran, the price of fruit, vegetables and meat are said to have risen higher than other, non-food commodities.  According to The New York Times this is due to banking restrictions which make it hard for foreign pharmaceutical companies to continue working in the country. One way people have been trying to get around the problem is by travelling to nearby countries such as Turkey to get what they need, or asking friends and family to go on their behalf. This is an exhibition at Seyhoun Art Gallery from November 2018. It features a series on large-scale ink work by Iranian artist Masi Divandari. This the Monir Museum, which is home to over 50 works for the artist's personal collection which are currently open to the public. 