 








        If you trade in an old phone and activate the new iPhone 11 at Verizon, Sprint, or AT&T, you can save up to $300.
      
Hollis Johnson/Business Insider

Updated 12/3/19 at 10:34 a.m. ETApple products are often at the top of many people's shopping lists, and they can be expensive, so it's always nice when you can find them on sale. This Cyber Monday, many Apple products were discounted, but now almost all the sales have ended.There are a few deals left on the iPad, Apple Watch, AirPods, and the iPhone 11. However, some of the discounts are smaller than they were on Cyber Monday. Here are the best extended Cyber Monday deals on Apple products.Apple's Airpods are among the best wireless earbuds you can buy, and they are almost never on sale. These discounts may be very small compared to other deals, but they are among the best we've seen for AirPods. Best Buy's site says stock is coming soon for the wireless charging case deal, so be sure to keep checking back until it does.The iPhone 11 lineup includes three of the best smartphones you can buy. Although the Cyber Monday deal of up to $500 in trade-in value is over, you can still get up to $300 off your new iPhone with a trade-in. If you trade in an eligible smartphone and activate the phone on Verizon, Sprint, or AT&T, you'll be able to get an iPhone 11 Pro for up to $300 off its original price — bringing the total to a starting price of $699.99. Of course, discounts will vary based on the phone you trade in.The Apple Watch Series 5 is the best Apple Watch ever, but it's also expensive. If you want an Apple Watch for $200, then the Apple Watch Series 3  is a solid option. It offers excellent fitness tracking, notifications for most apps, and more.A couple of deals have already sold out, so you may want to act quickly. Certain colors and sizes are selling out faster than others, so be sure to check all the options.The new 10.2-inch is the best iPad for most people's needs. It's powerful, offers a sleek design, and has a relatively big 10.2-inch display. It works with the Apple Pencil, too. With this Cyber Week deal, you'll save $30 on the entry-level model at Amazon. For $299.99, it's a decent deal, though not as good as the $80 discount we saw on Cyber Monday.Subscribe to our newsletter.
                    Find all the best offers at our Coupons page.
                    Disclosure: This post is brought to you by the Insider Picks team. We highlight products and services you might find interesting. If you buy them, we get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. We frequently receive products free of charge from manufacturers to test. This does not drive our decision as to whether or not a product is featured or recommended. We operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback. Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com.