Cue Kelly Clarkson's holiday album: Macy's Black Friday 2019 ad scan is in the house and we can smell mashed potatoes just by looking at it.Macy's ad is 40 pages compared to Target's 43 or Best Buy's 115, but that means nothing. Macy's holds random sales year-round for literally no reason, so you know they know that they have to step their game up even more to beat those prices.In-store shoppers can show up at 5 pm on Thanksgiving Day and shop until 2 am on Friday morning. Macy's will open back up at 6 am on actual Black Friday, and that's when the magic starts. The incredible doorbuster deals on Dyson vacuums, Ninja kitchen items, and more will be at their lowest prices until 1 pm on Friday. BestBlackFriday.com also suggests keeping your eyes peeled for mail-in rebates, which could get you some freebies (like a plush throw blanket or Bella 1.5-quart slow cooker) if you snag 'em before 1 pm.Other retailers will likely have similar deals on big brands, but Macy's is offering some extra incentives: You can get $10 off a $25 purchase or $25 off a $50 purchase on select home items — potentially saving you a bit more than at the other places. All purchases over $50 will get you a snazzy pair of $200 diamond earrings for $29.99. (*Cough stocking stuffer cough*)From Nov. 27 through Nov. 30, you can use code BLKFRI to take an extra 20% off select sale and clearance clothing, accessories and home items or an extra 15% off select sale and clearance jewelry, shoes, handbags, coats, suits, and luggage. Check out AskMen for more specifics on apparel deals.What not to buy at Macy's on Black Friday: Instant Pots. The Instant Pot Duo (6-quart) is one of Macy's "big" doorbusters, but Amazon already has that $69.99 beat — and that's not even Amazon's Black Friday price.Here are some of the best deals, but you can scroll for days here — that shopping list isn't gonna make itself.    
Image:  dyson
You don't have to keep putting up with that corded vacuum getting caught on everything, you know that right? BestBlackFriday.com has picked Macy's Dyson deals as some of the store's best Black Friday offerings this year. While Dyson ball and stick vacuums typically don't see discounts past $100 off (like 2019's Labor Day sale) Macy's ad suggests savings up to $200 off. There are no specifics for stick vacuums, but we expect to see the V8 Animal for as low as $199.99 or the new, glorious V11 Animal for as low as $399.99. Macy's did tell us that the Dyson Big Ball Multi-Floor Canister Vacuum will be $229.99, which is $270 off.Before you buy, make sure you're getting the best deal by checking the original prices on Dyson's site. It currently looks like all the Dyson vacuums are already on sale, but that's because Macy's likes to inflate the original price.
Image:  ninja
If you have a crappy coffee maker or slow cooker that needs to be replaced, Macy's Ninja deals can give you an upgrade. Our favorite deal is the Ninja Foodi, which is in line with Amazon's lowest price ever (but potentially an extra $25 off if Ninja meets those coupon requirements). Other Ninja steals include the gorgeous Ninja Specialty Coffee Maker for $99.99 or the Ninja BL660 Professional Blender for $69.99.
Image:  bella
Pro tip: Don't spend $15 on a single sandwich at Panera when you can have homemade paninis for life for $19.99. Macy's will have the Bella non-stick panini grill for $25 off, and it can make two sammies at once.You're smart. You probably want to compare prices across the board before choosing where to spend your money. Check out our other Black Friday coverage to make sure you get the best deal:Black Friday is late this year: Use those extra days to set a game planTarget just dropped its 54-page 2019 Black Friday ad: Save on iPhone 11, gaming bundles, Instant Pot, and moreKohl's steps up its game: Black Friday deals on PS4, Nintendo Switch, Amazon Echo, and moreBest Buy's Black Friday 2019 ad is 115 pages long and some sales have already startedDell's Black Friday ad for 2019 is here: Save on 4K TVs, laptops, gaming monitors, and moreThese are the Black Friday sales worth waiting for
Heads up: All products featured here are selected by Mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. If you buy something, Mashable may earn an affiliate commission. 
