Tipping really is one of the most confusing customs. In the United States, it’s one that’s had a long and troubling history and is often the subject of heated debates. That’s because there are no real “rules” for tipping, and the etiquette of it can seem pretty arbitrary. Besides varying opinions for who and how much to tip, customs vary by country as well. Ask a dozen people when and how much they tip, and you’ll get a dozen different answers.That said, it is nice to have some guidelines to reduce the anxiety and awkwardness of not knowing if you should be tipping. Here’s what we found out for several categories where you’re likely to find yourself in a tipping situation.When planning a wedding, most people are prepared for big costs like the venue, caterer, and…Tipping in hotels is one of those things that we know we’re supposed to do, but can easily get away Because the end of the year is a time to show your appreciation for the people who’ve helped you all year long, many people give holiday tips. We have a whole guide just for that.As with traveling, tipping around the holidays can breed confusion and stress. You know you’re…If you are in doubt about whether or how much to tip, ask in advance. The Emily Post Institute says, for example, that asking a receptionist or delivery coordinator whether tipping is customary can save you from embarrassment when it’s time to tip (or not tip)If you’re still in doubt and want to tip, you can’t go wrong with 15%-20%. This depends on how good the service was.Tipping is about expressing gratitude. The above recommendations are just that—recommendations. You should follow your gut and base your decision on whether to tip or not based on how regularly you see the person, how much they help you out, and perhaps how much their job or livelihood depends on your tip.Hopefully the above tip examples will ease your mind the next time a possible tipping situation comes up.This post was originally published in 2012 and was updated on 11/27/2019 to reflect more current information.