Colin Kaepernick on Saturday told NFL teams to "stop running" and give him another chance in the league."I've been ready for three years,'' Kaepernick said. "I've been denied for three years. We all know why I came out here. [I] showed it today in front of everybody. We have nothing to hide. So we're waiting for the 32 owners, 32 teams, Roger Goodell, all of them stop running. Stop running from the truth. Stop running from the people."Kaepernick made the statement while addressing reporters after a hectic, complicated, and at-times heated day that saw him change the workout plans made by the NFL.The NFL had arranged a private workout for Kaepernick on Saturday in front of NFL teams at the Atlanta Falcons stadium. According to reports, the timing of the workout was non-negotiable, as the NFL insisted it take place on Saturday, a day most NFL coaches and GMs are not available.On Saturday, Kaepernick's camp and the NFL squabbled over some details, including liability waivers and media availability."From the outset, Mr. Kaepernick requested a legitimate process and from the outset the NFL league office has not provided one," said Kaepernick's agent Jeff Nalley and attorney Ben Meiselas. "Most recently, the NFL has demanded that as a precondition to the workout, Mr. Kaepernick sign an unusual liability waiver that addresses employment-related issues and rejected the standard liability waiver from physical injury proposed by Mr. Kaepernick's representatives."The NFL responded with their own statement, claiming that they had cooperated with Kaepernick's camp's requests, but Kaepernick's camp made several late requests, including last-minute media availability for Nike, plus a "completely rewritten and insufficient waiver."The league said Kaepernick informed them at 2:30 that he would be moving his 3:00 workout to a different location and different time.According to The New York Times' Kevin Draper, Nike denied the NFL's claims that they were on the ground in Atlanta to film Kaepernick's workout. Despite some squabbling over details, Kaepernick still held the workout at a nearby high school in front of eight teams — 25 were initially planning to attend the NFL workout — and made 60 scripted throws. According to NFL Network's Ian Rapoport, scouts who attended the workout said Kaepernick was in good shape and still had impressive arm strength and velocity on the ball. Some scouts questioned his accuracy on some deep balls, according to Rapoport.ESPN's Adam Schefter said an NFL executive said Kaepernick still has "elite" arm talent.Kaepernick's ability to throw downfield impressed on-lookers.








        Colin Kaepernick threw the ball well at his workout.
      
Todd Kirkland/AP

Still, there remains some skepticism that the workout will help Kaepernick get signed. Schefter said on "SportsCenter" that it's "hard to imagine" Kaepernick will get signed. He said the workout showed what everyone has known for three years — that Kaepernick can throw the ball. He still has not been signed during that span.Sports Illustrated analyst and former NFL agent Andrew Brandt expressed similar doubt.The changing of the venues may have had some effect, also. Mike Klis of Denver 9 News reported, for instance, that Broncos pro scouts had to leave to prepare for the Broncos' Week 11 game and could not travel an hour away for a later workout.Kaepernick on Saturday told reporters he'll go "anywhere.""We're out here. We're ready to play. We're ready to go anywhere."