Tesla CEO Elon Musk casually promised a massive contribution to a YouTuber's tree-planting campaign, announcing the donation via tweet.Musk promised to donate 1 million trees to #TeamTrees, a campaign started by the YouTuber Jimmy Donaldson, otherwise known as "MrBeast." The tech executive caught wind of the campaign Monday, replying to Donaldson's tweet calling the campaign "cool" and inquiring "where are the trees being planted" and "what kind of trees."Upon explanation, Musk responded Tuesday in the thread: "Ok, sounds legit, will donate 1M trees."Donaldson replied to Musk's tweet, calling him "Treelon Musk," which prompted the Tesla CEO to change his Twitter name to "Treelon" and make his profile picture an image of a forest. He also tweeted "For Treebeard," in reference to a character from "The Lord of the Rings."








        Elon Musk changed his Twitter name to "Treelon" after making the massive donation.
      
Twitter

Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey also made a significant contribution to the campaign, donating 150,000 trees to the tree-planting cause. YouTube is also planning on matching the next million dollars donated to TeamTrees through the YouTube donate button, Donaldson wrote in a tweet.Shopify CEO Tobi Lutke is the only person to beat Musk's donation so far, having donated 1,000,001 trees to the cause.Musk's massive donation announcement comes in the wake of reports that he is "financially illiquid," following a recent defamation lawsuit. Musk is worth about $23.6 billion, though most of his net worth is in the form of stock in his companies SpaceX and Tesla.Donaldson's social-media followers challenged him in May to raise money to plant 20 million trees by next year to commemorate hitting the 20 million subscriber milestone on YouTube.Donaldson partnered with the Arbor Day Foundation, the longest-running tree-planting nongovernmental organization, to roll out the endeavor. According to the campaign's website, one dollar is equivalent to one tree, and each tree will be "planted in a variety of forests on public and private lands in areas of great need."Among the big donors (besides Musk) are the fellow YouTuber and former NASA engineer Mark Rober and the beauty YouTuber Jeffree Star, who donated 50,000 trees. The EDM musician Alan Walker donated 100,001 trees in an attempt to overtake the No. 1 spot, which was held by Donaldson to challenge donors for bigger contributions.The campaign had raised nearly $10 million as of Wednesday afternoon.