What are your favorite products of the year? Is the iPhone 11 Pro your favorite smartphone, or does Google do it better? What about your favorite laptop, tablet, game console, headphones and more? That's what we want to know for the first annual Future Tech Awards Reader's Choice awards!Throughout 2019, we've used thousands of products, and narrowing it down to the best of the best is difficult. At least 50 flagship phones, more than 100 computers, and millions of different accessories were launched this year. Across Future Tech, we've seen the good, bad, and great this year, and we've shortlisted the best products and services across a range of categories.What's the best way to celebrate the best tech of the year? How about getting it in your hands in time for the holidays? There are four prizes available and you could win BIG. Here's what's on offer:To cast your vote, fill out the survey below. You can scroll up and down between questions and go back at any time using the button at the bottom. Once you finish the survey, you'll be able to enter the giveaway. Note: Don't hit the back button in your browser, as your responses will be lost, and you'll have to start from the beginning.We will announce the winners of the Reader's Choice the week of December 16th. Winners of the giveaway will be contacted the week prior, and we'll aim to have your prize shipped to you in time for the holidays.Cast your vote now, make sure your voice is heard and you could have an extra special holidays!Click here to vote and enter the giveaway if you're on AMP/mobileFind out more about the Future Tech Awards

iframe {
    background: #404040;
}
2019 isn't over yet, so that means that we need another high profile phone to leak out. Well, here comes Samsung and the Galaxy S11+ to save us with new renders to show off its massive camera bump.Disney+ just added the "Continue Watching" section to its app, one of the most requested features since it launched.Black Friday is right around the corner, and that means massive discounts on all sorts of Android phones. Do you plan on picking one up during this year's shopping season?You don’t need a DSLR camera to shoot professional-looking photography — all you need is your Android phone and a reliable lens kit!Nirave Gondhia has been writing about the mobile industry for over a decade and began his career selling and fixing phones in the UK. He's used every flagship smartphone over the past five years and carries at least two phones at all times - currently, he's using the iPhone XS, Huawei Mate 20 Pro and Galaxy S10+. Say hi to him on Twitter at @nirave.Sign up now to be notified of the latest news, rumors, & more