by Surur@mspoweruserToday on twitter Elon Musk announced the launch date of the Tesla Cybertruck.Musk has given a lot of hints about the all-important design of the long-awaited light truck, such that it will look like an “armoured personnel carrier from the future”.He has also said it will feature a 400-500 mile range, dual-motor all-wheel-drive drive train and dynamic suspension, and “300,000 lbs of towing capacity.”Today he revealed the launch date of the Tesla Cybertruck will be on the 21st November in Los Angeles near the SpaceX rocket factory.Cybertruck unveil on Nov 21 in LA near SpaceX rocket factory— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 6, 2019Musk had earlier warned that the design will be divisive, saying it will a ‘really futuristic-like cyberpunk Blade Runner’ that ‘won’t be for everyone.’  Consistent with the Blade Runner theme, the date the truck is unveiled (November 2019) was also the date the science fiction film Blade Runner was set also.Light trucks are one of the most popular car categories in USA, and Musk has said his version will cost less than $50,000 and “be better than a Ford F150.”Musk promised their truck would be “a better sports car than a standard Porsche 911”, as well as a “better truck than a Ford F-150 in terms of truck-like functionality.”It remains to be seen if the vehicle will measure up to all the expectations, but I suspect even many fans are rather sceptical.via: Electrekby Raka on November 12, 2019by Rakaby Sururby Rakaby SururIn September Amazon announced a slew of devices that expands all nooks and crannies of the Amazon Echo ecosystem, with one of the most popular likely being the Amazon Echo Show 8, for which ...Amazon is not waiting until Black Friday to offer deep iPad Pro discounts at their web store. Today you can get the latest 12.9-inch iPad Pro with 256GB storage for just $949.99, $199.01 off...Dell has released its list of Black Friday deals to help get the holiday shopping season kickstarted. Starting with the easy to throw into a carry-on Dell XPS 13 2-in-1, announced only in Ma...Microsoft is now offering a deal on its Surface Go that’s specially tailored to families with tech-savvy kids. Starting from $440, you can build a “Surface Go Kids Bundle”,...The most interesting mainstream laptop of the last 12 months is still the HP Spectre Folio. Dressed in leather, the high-end laptop can be a tablet, laptop or turn into a presentation tent m...Apple’s Powerbeats Pro with adjustable, secure-fit ear hooks, are on sale for $199.95- down from $249.95, making it a saving of 20%, or $50. The headphones offer up to 12 hours of list...In September, Lenovo announced seven new Yoga 2-in-1 Windows PCs and today the C940 range have become available for purchase. Lenovo made the following updates to Alexa on Yoga PCs: Lock Scr...A bit like the Surface Studio, Microsoft’s Surface Headphones have been universally lauded for its design, which combines both extreme comfort and ease of use. The headphones, which ar...In the run-up to Microsoft’s Surface event next month, Microsoft is running a big sale on the whole Surface range, from the Surface Go to the Surface Book. The Surface Go range is seei...Lenovo’s Miix 630 is one of the first Qualcomm Snapdragon-based Windows devices. The Windows 10 S 2-in-1 detachable comes with integrated 4G LTE for seamless connectivity, meaning you ...