That said, there’s still plenty of buzz surrounding the upcoming pickup, which we now know will make its debut on November 21st. Unless it becomes official, there’s no way we’re using Musk’s preferred name for the model.That infuriating word is “Cybertruck,” which Musk used to refer to the electric pickup when announcing the reveal date via Twitter on Wednesday. Tech blogs will no doubt be in attendance when the model’s clothes come off at an L.A. venue near Musk’s SpaceX rocket facility.It was well known that the pickup would arrive in November, though Musk’s announcement contained no details about when future reservation holders might get their hands on a real one. The Model Y crossover, based on the Model 3, launched in March; deliveries aren’t expected until next summer. So yes, there’s a significant lag when it comes to Tesla products. The automaker uses that gap to collect deposits, find a production site, and get around to arranging suppliers and the necessary tools of assembly.Calling it “a better truck than Ford F-150,” Musk has claimed the pickup will boast a range of 400 to 500 miles, offer a spacious cabin, and look like something that drove out of the future. Hence the name Cybertruck, a word that makes this writer’s skin crawl. Starting price is said to be less than $50,000, but you can bet that stripped-down model will not be first to land in driveways. If it’s anything like the Model 3, the entry-level variant might be the rarest thing on the road.The earliest you’ll see a Tesla pickup in the flesh, driven by a private owner, will likely be no sooner than 2021.[Image: Tesla]So is it going to be midsize or full-size? The F-150 EV will laugh this off the stage if it comes out as first gen Tundra sized.And according to the B&B the ROW have drivers incapable of driving a normal American sized vehicle.” The F-150 EV will laugh this off the stage if it comes out as first gen Tundra sized.”
— Why?“And according to the B&B the ROW have drivers incapable of driving a normal American sized vehicle.”
— Who?Well you in particular.@Hummer: Well, the funny thing about that is that I don’t see F-150s pulling tandem-axle dump trailers either. Nor do I see F-150s pulling cars on a trailer behind them. Those kinds of duty tend to go to the F-250 or -350 models and equivalents.What I do see more often than not is mid-sized trucks carrying a fully loaded bed of ‘stuff’, anywhere from lawn and garden supplies to trash to … junk–indescribable volume of assorted objects that may or may not be work-related for the driver. Except in relatively rare circumstances, the smaller (not small) trucks are doing more real work while the full-sized trucks are serving as open-backed family station wagons–many even with bed covers that enhance the station wagon look. Oh, and I have seen midsized trucks pulling cars on a trailer behind them. After all, my own “car-engined” Chevy Colorado has a 7000# towing capacity–more than enough capacity to tow a car on a U-haul carrier. Some of the new Full-sized F-150s and Sierra/Silverados (and Rams) can’t even tow that much.And what is your definition of ROW, a group to which you portend I belong?I own an F150 and routinely pull a car trailer (enclosed and open) as well as a 30 foot travel trailer.  No way my old Frontier was up to that on a regular basis.And Hummer is correct…longer wheelbase is your friend when towing.  The midsizers are all white knuckle rides with a big trailer behind them.@Hummer; @Art V: I live in a county known as “Ceciltucky”, which is quite rural in and of itself, though also serves as a bedroom county for a couple of big cities both north and south. The vast majority of F-150s I see towing ANYTHING are towing utility trailers often smaller than their own beds. Until state laws banned “rolling coal”, I saw diesel versions with one or two gigantic stacks rising behind the cab. I still see them with big cans behind the rear wheel (usually passenger side) but they’re being very, VERY careful to avoid blowing smoke.F-150s (and other half-ton trucks) are currently limited to roughly 10,000# towing, plus or minus a bit. The ones using “car engines” (meaning 2.7L or smaller turbo fours) are typically limited to 5000# towing. And by no means is the Colorado a “small and narrow platform” as you describe; the old “compact pickups” maybe but those didn’t carry the Colorado name. And where I do see someone towing a travel trailer with an F-150, I have to laugh out loud because the hitch is almost invariably just an inch or two from the pavement because the driver doesn’t know how to hook up a load-leveling hitch properly. My Colorado is already rigged for towing and it has plenty of wheelbase for the job within its rated limits. I’ve already towed with it and it drove like there was nothing behind it; no instability whatsoever.So come back up to the present and realize that today’s mid-sizers are NOT the same as 20+ years ago!Oh, and you never did define “ROW”. Care to do so now?You said you never saw F150’s pulling anything.  I said mine pulls regularly.  Because a truck isn’t pulling max payload/weight all the time doesn’t mean it doesn’t do so frequently.  Curious, is your truck ever empty?  Wouldn’t a Transit Connect suit your needs most of the time?  I mean I should sell my Fiesta…typically the hatch and back/passenger seats are empty.  Of course it couldn’t have pulled the Leaf to get a new windshield yesterday (it was destroyed…had a hole where the hood corner punched it so not drivable).And I am not sure what people in your neck of the woods inability to hook up a trailer has to do with anything.  I rarely see such shenanigans on any tow vehicle.Bottom line, my truck, and most folks with trucks I know of any size are used for “truck stuff” way more than my old Miata was out doing “sports car stuff”.In other words, there are work trucks and ‘toy’ trucks and the half-ton models tend to be the toys while the mid-size and Â¾-ton-plus models do the work. Of course, YMMV.“No design, no development, no R&D, no budget, no nothing.”What do you think Tesla will reveal on November 21 – an artist’s rendition?  Tesla has had running prototypes at every product reveal in the past.Please enlighten us.SCE, please enlighten us.  there’s 2 semis and 2 or 3 roadsters. So I guess we’re going to see a showroom floor of “cybertrucks” on the release day?“Imagefont” was suggesting that November 21st will bring us nothing to show, and that Tesla isn’t even working on a product.  That would be a first for Tesla.Another first would be it getting to market when they say it is supposed to.  This will likely be the third electric pickup to market…behind both Ford and Rivian.  Also all this cyberpunk bladerunner crap is nonsense and an answer to a question nobody is asking.  I certainly think Tesla could build a real pickup, but all of the teasers lead me to think this will be something for the Tesla faithful, not a serious truck for people who make their living off of trucks.  This truck from what I have seen won’t be different and revolutionary, it will be different to be different in a market that has spent 60 years with customers telling manufacturers exactly what they want and need.  It’s a real shame honestly and I hope that isn’t the case.“$50,000 starting price is laughable and out of sync with the prices they charge for their existing vehicles.”
— I don’t think so. ASP (Average Sales Prices) will likely be in the $80k – $90k price range.To be quite blunt, nothing you said is based on fact. It’s all opinion based on assumptions more likely to be invalid than true.Choosing not to remodel the S and X doesn’t mean they can’t.I have not noted any great suppression of Tesla’s CapX; in fact, it appears higher than ever at $61B+. Honestly, I see you as an anti-Tesla zealot, working hard to belittle a brand for no apparent reason.This thing will command King Ranch money for what will amount to being an electric Ranger, and I mean the old Ranger. The silver lining here is perhaps it will be Tesla to finally offer a small truck again instead of today’s “mid” size trucks which are 80% of “full” size and full size trucks which are gigantic in nearly every configuration.Tesla has a pretty good sized cultish following.
You see pictures of year old Model 3s rusting like a 72 Vega in Cleveland and the faithful claim its because the owner didn’t do a half dozen things like coatings, mud flaps, etc.
Some percentage of those folks want a pickup truck, and I suspect Tesla is the only one they’ll buy.
With the vaunted Tesla “autopilot” there will be fleets of these delivering landscape stuff, building materials, auto parts etc without need for expensive drivers.Interesting summary of the quality problems, from insideevs (which is heavily, but not exclusively, pro-Tesla):https://insideevs.com/features/377882/issues-tesla-model-3-guide/For now at least, I’m glad I got a Hyundai instead – no drama, no quality issues.I was purchasing a Tesla but backed out.  My friend has a 3 that has had some stupid issues.  Also looking at the rebuild channels on YouTube and seeing how they are actually designed has made me steer clear.  Bottom line, if those cars were Ford’s or GMs the “best and brightest” would be skewering them, and rightly so.  My kid’s Leaf is a practical car that happens to be electric and you know what, when he wrecked it I ordered parts and Nissan shipped them to my door in a couple of days.  No waiting, no authorized dealer BS.  It’s like a real car from a real company.  The supercharger network is currently the only real plus I see to more pedestrian offerings (lower range, but also tens of thousands less money).  It is a real advantage but if electrics become truly mainstream it is a temporary one.  I actually like the Mini electric.  Yes, it is compromised but it is the one so far I could foresee getting me out of my Fiesta ST if the handling lives up to the hype.I’m one of those Tesla superfans, BUT the reason I’m a fan is that they’re accelerating the future.  Musk is actually doing all the stuff that my friends and I talked and dreamed about in engineering school.There’s room for more than one EV maker.The more people at the EV party the better.If your driving anything other than a boring ol’ gas engine, I’m going to find what you’re driving interesting.P.S. I’m going to be excited to see the electric F-150, too!I see your overall points but I’m not sure economics will allow for another Tesla. I very much doubt even the established players are making dime one on the EV products they offer. The fact Tesla still even exists is proof it had/has very powerful backers.I think if I can lease it for 3-4 years at the same cost of a lariat ultimatum…its worth trying. Why not? Fun to have something different. Big plus if it’s a drag racers nightmare. I’m all for it! I’ll take the first one for a discount just to show people it’s not that bad. I’ll also tell Elon he built a joke if it completely sucks! Bring on the e truck!I assume it really won’t be called Cybertruck when it comes time for production.  Too bad Model T has already been used.When I get rid of the Volt, I’ll go full on EV but as fas as my PU truck I’ll keep that gas. An EV PU wouldn’t work for me about 90% of the time I got in it. They might be good in a fleet application.Tesla’s manufacturing abilities leave something to be desired……..look elsewhere for your EV PU.Can’t argue your statements–you’re quite right about being ideal for fleet work in construction and services where they don’t drive all that far. On the other hand, I have to ask how you use your pickup that would prohibit the use of an EV version. 90% of the time for me is still local driving in my Colorado but I do take the occasional longer trip that would require the use of high-speed chargers (at 400-500 mile range not an issue when lightly loaded) but I bought the truck because the wife wants to tow an RV, where range would be halved (even a gas/diesel sees reduced range when towing.) I just want to understand your reasoning as to why it couldn’t work for you.All my local driving is done with the Volt. Currently I don’t have a PU but in another year or two I’ll get rid of the ‘Hoe and get a FS crew cab PU, most likely another GMC, because having owned one I find them much more useful than an SUV. The ‘Hoe gets driven on weekends and almost always has something hooked to the back of it. Round trip is never less than 300 miles and not much for charging stations in rural MN or WI. Last time I drove it was 2 weeks ago. Put 320 miles on it in a day towing a 3000 pound boat. Drove home with the lights and heat on. Will be making the exact same trip this weekend. 400 – 500 miles of range won’t cut it towing in cold weather with the heat on for 5-6 hours.Just so you know, there are more Tesla Superchargers in those two states than you might believe, though I acknowledge they may not be near the route you personally take. They appear to be about 80 miles apart according to their maps ( https://www.tesla.com/findus?bounds=51.67787708995455%2C-72.89531624530127%2C38.760775654886935%2C-104.28691959594062&zoom=6&filters=supercharger ) so the issue may not be as bad as you think. I will note that my typical routes from Delaware to Tennessee and Florida are significantly more dense with Superchargers, so such a run for me, especially since I use expressways for long-distance driving, would be no more difficult than they already are with my ICEs. And the Tesla, at least, will tell you where the nearest charging is and how to get there.Not trying to convince you to buy a Tesla, mind you; only pointing out that much of what you believe is based on hearsay and you should do your own research when the time comes. Too many people claim a BEV cannot do what the Teslas already do.The word “cyber” grates on my nerves, too…It has a history of being used to describe IT — but mostly by people who have no about IT.Ted Stevens would have used the word “cyber” to describe what Linus Torvalds does.  Linus Torvalds, not so much.Anyone watch The FasT Lane Car try to take a trip in a garbage Model X from Colorado to Oregon?That’s all you need to know about how big of a joke EVs are when it comes to just about anything.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjklex38lkQAn electric Ford or Tesla pickup?  Complete garbage.You must be logged in to post a comment.