
												Plus new abilities, Pep Signals, and more.					Bethesda is giving players more ways to put Nazis in their place today, with the advent of Wolfenstein: Youngblood's free 1.07 content update, which adds two new locations to the game, new abilities, new end-game activities, and more.Youngblood's new areas - a Parisian reservoir and secret Nazi bunker to be precise - can be accessed once players have completed the Da'at Yichud Artifacts end-game side quest. With this out the way, the new Treasure Hunt side mission will unlock, sending players off in search of a Da'at Yichud chest, reported to be hidden away in a secret Nazi hideout.As noted in Bethesda's 1.07 release notes, the new Parisian reservoir and Nazi bunker are home to three new enemy types: the Wurmlochsoldat (Teleporting Übersoldier), the Electrodrohne (Tesla Drone), and the Turmhund (Laserhund with a turret). Additionally, completing the quest will add 20 Treasure Maps to the Missions tab, leading to hidden artifacts, each rewarding XP, Silver Coins and one Ability Point.Elsewhere, 1.07 extends all three of Wolfenstein: Youngblood's existing ability trees, adding the likes of Quick Revive to the Mind path, Dual Wield Expert  to Muscle, and Silent Killer to Power. Power also gains the new God Key Sense ability, used for locating the game's new treasure. This, however, doesn't require players to spend an Ability Point to unlock, rather it's granted automatically after completing Da'at Yichud Artifacts.Rounding out the update are a selection of new skins and two new Pep Signals - Hammer Rage and Quad Damage - inspired by other id Software games. The first restores Heavy Weapon ammo for you and sis, while the second enables players to deal quad damage for four seconds.Wolfenstein: Youngblood's 1.07 content update is available now on PC, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4, and will be making its way to Switch "soon".Sometimes we include links to online retail stores. If you click on one and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. For more information, go here.
Jump to comments (25)
More about Wolfenstein YoungbloodAbout the authorMatt WalesReporterMatt Wales is a freelance writer and gambolling summer child who won't even pretend to live a busily impressive life of dynamic go-getting for the purposes of this bio. He is the sole and founding member of the Birdo for President of Everything Society.Related

Gruesome be-the-monster "reverse horror" game Carrion is coming to Xbox One						
Alongside PC version next year.

Dead Cells' 15th free update adds Corrupted Confinement biome, deadly birds, and more						
Out now on PC, coming to consoles "soon".

505 confirms Death Stranding will launch simultaneously on Steam and the Epic Store						
When it comes to PC next summer.

Monster Hunter World's Resident Evil 2 and Horizon Zero Dawn events dated and detailed						
Both happening this month for Iceborne players.

Reminisce over past BioWare glories with Anthem's new Mass Effect cosmetics						
Just in time for N7 day.You may also enjoy...

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare review - punchy gunplay in a camper's paradise						
Combat fatigue.

Destiny 2 Xenophage quest: How to complete The Journey and Pathfinder puzzle steps						
How to get the Shadowkeep exotic machine gun.

Modern Warfare campaign mission list, rewards and ending explained						
What you need to know about the 2019 Call of Duty campaign.

Call of Duty: Modern Warfare accused of "rewriting history" to blame Russia for controversial US attacks						
"The Campaign is a fictional story that does not represent real-world events."

Control walkthrough - Guide and tips for completing the main missions						
Our walkthrough for Control on PS4, Xbox One and PC. Comments (25)AdvertisementSubscribe to The Eurogamer.net Daily
									The 10 most popular stories of the day, delivered at 5pm UK time. Never miss a thing.								Bad puns and video games since 1999.This site © 2019 Gamer Network. All Rights Reserved. No part of this site or its content may be reproduced without the permission of the copyright holder.ExploreHelpful linksAcross EuropeGamer NetworkSign inConnect with FacebookNew in town?