
					
						
						Want to read Slashdot from your mobile device? Point it at m.slashdot.org and keep reading!
					
				
Nickname:


Password:


Nickname:


Password:


The Fine Print: The following comments are owned by whoever posted them.  We are not responsible for them in any way.
Or does Tesla really expect people to keep paying $50 k with a car which is so incomplete that you must look at the corner of a computer screen to determine the current speed?Why would it mean that they'd add a dashboard? Tesla already sells more expensive cars. This is their entry level model.Their entry level model sells without a dashboard?  Can I 'bring my own'?   We have a spare Galaxy Tab here that might work.On Twitter, Musk said the Berlin-based gigafactory "Will build batteries, powertrains & vehicles, starting with Model Y."Try reading the summary...https://www.forbes.com/sites/j... [forbes.com]You can expect that the German government will heavily subsidize the Tesla factory.And how and why would they do that?Government subsidizing are illegal. I'm surprised you do not know that ...Yes, there are subsidizings.But subsidizing a random company is illegal.The GF4 will open before the BER !Talk about a head start !https://youtu.be/GrWQpjw4rvk [youtu.be]The tents will be easy to take down and move when the airport does become operational.At least Germany didn't try to leave the EU. Musk said clearly that brexit ruled the UK out for the new factory.In comparison failing to build an airport on time is a relatively minor cock-up.I'm not basing it on any evidence, but I suspect that the real decision is how much of a special deal Tesla gets for opening the factory there, special tax rates, special deals, kickbacks, whatever. Part of Tesla's image is that they're seen as a green environmentally friendly. I'm not sure how lithium battery production can be considered green and environmentally friendly organisation, and politicians will certainly love being photographed cutting ribbons when the site opens. Meanwhile, the Germans also ha The EU has rules against state aid, including those kinds of kickbacks and special tax rates. You may remember that the Irish government was required to collect billions in back taxes from Apple because they gave them illegal state aid through tax breaks.The principal of a level playing field is a pillar of the EU's single market.Maybe Berlin is just the best place to build Tesla cars in the EU. There doesn't have to be a bribe, it could just be a good business decision.Berlin is the best place in the EU to sell Teslas - it is full of hipsters.  If Tesla are getting nothing out of this deal, then why Berlin? There is no deal. Why the funk would there need to be a deal to set up a factory?Why Berlin is easy: biggest city in Germany. Several universities, huge work force, still affordable housing prices, and generally low cost of living. Unlike other cities Berlin is not a monolithic block of concrete but a spider net of settlements, water and wildlife. There is endless space to set up a factory. Most everything is nicely connected by public transportSorry, to spoil your bubble,There are no "deals" in Europe.For what funking reason one would need a deal? Which side would need a deal? You simply buy the land and build a factory. Thats it.Yes, there is something in for Tesla/Musk: well educated work force, low cost of living, low costs for housing.I'm not basing it on any evidence, but I suspect that the real decision is how much of a special deal Tesla gets for opening the factory there, special tax rates,Germany does not have special deals on tax rates like in the US.Really?Where is it?How much?Does it have pillars big enough to have a condo inside?What actually did you mean by selling me a bridge is beyond me ...I would think Germany being in the middle of the EU, rather than at one end or the other had more to do with it. Many of the Germany auto companies have made the jump toward all electric and that means they need lots and lots of batteries but where is the new slick reclining two seater roadster with external battery packs and a single front powered swing up door. Tilt up to embark and disembark and slow speed and recline all the way down for high speed, the entire vehicle.The UK used to attract a decent amount of car manufacturing. Nissan, Honda and BMW all built plants here, for example. Yeah, BMW, a Germany company, has a plant in the UK. They ship parts over and ship cars back.Yes, they build the Mini there, which is a British car. They also own the Rolls Royce car company.The Mini isn't very British these days. It's all BMW hardware.yadda yadda, Minis are no longer proper "British" motorcarscan confirm, we've had ours more than a year and yet not one electrical gremlin or oil leak.Although Apple CarPlay is intrusive, balky and counter-intuitive enough to give you a digital facsimile of the authentic British motorcar experience.Bodywork still okay? See the great thing about British motors is that even though the electrics may short out and the engine go up in smoke you can just stamp your foot through the floor and push along Flintstones style.You can thank the USA for getting Tesla off the ground with the outrageous government subsidies.  Now that Tesla is almost toilet trained, sporting it's pull-ups, and is pretending to be a grown-up company, countries like China and Germany will get the jobs that should have stayed in the USA.I am sure, like most of the Millennials, once Tesla graduates and realizes that it cannot compete in the free market, it will be back to live in the USA's basement, smoke pot, and pretend to look for jobs.You can thank the USA for getting Tesla off the ground with the outrageous government subsidies.  Now that Tesla is almost toilet trained, sporting it's pull-ups, and is pretending to be a grown-up company, countries like China and Germany will get the jobs that should have stayed in the USA.I am sure, like most of the Millennials, once Tesla graduates and realizes that it cannot compete in the free market, it will be back to live in the USA's basement, smoke pot, and pretend to look for jobs.Actually what is most likely to happen, is that someone else will buy them and use the brand name to sell their own cars.
I know this because there is over 100 years of automotive history to learn from.German automakers have been caught flat-footed with pathetic EV offerings. Only VW shows signs of life and they are only doing it because the US fined them billions over "dieselgate".Tesla can show them how to make EVs.VW makes its EVs in Poland.Except the Taycan is a better can than a Model S in every wayPart of VW. There is hope despite the late startGoddamn I just can't get over how they called it the taycan TURBO S. Turbo! Electric car! Gaaah!Even if I could afford it, I wouldn't buy one just because I'd feel like such a tool driving around in a car with turbo in the name and address electric drivetrain.They had TURBO decals left over from the 80's.Tell me about it. In the 90s I used to pay computer games at higher than normal speed because I couldn't bring myself to press three turbo button on my pc because I too am unable to cope with words having multiple meanings.now talk to someone who's driven bothYou don't buy a Porsche because it's the best performing or best value for money. You buy it because it's a fun toy and status symbol, which by all accounts the Taycan is.Different market segments really. The Taycan is probably more of a competitor for the new Tesla Roadster than for the Model S.You don't buy a Porsche because it's the best performing or best value for money. You buy it because it's a fun toy and status symbol, which by all accounts the Taycan is.So is the Tesla, to most people.  The availability of the Model 3 is watering that down a bit, but not much.  The only thing I really don't like about my Model S is the fact that it gets too much attention on the road -- even though it's a base model and a few years old, so wasn't particularly expensive.  I don't want to be seen as a "flashy car guy", but I often am.Different market segments really. The Taycan is probably more of a competitor for the new Tesla Roadster than for the Model S.If that's true, then it's going to be utterly trounced by the Roadster, likely in every single measurable category.I wonder about the Model 3, especially if they deliver on their robotaxi plan next year. They won't, they are years away from that, but say they did and Model 3s became the most common type of taxi. It would be like driving a black London cab or a yellow New York taxi.Musk said on Twitter that a Model 3 would be worth hundreds of thousands of dollars once they got robotaxi working, but I have a feeling it will be the exact opposite.The Taycan looks like a great performance car.  It handles better and that is the essence of a sports car to me.  That said, I'd rather have my 3 year old Model S.  Why?  Because the Taycan wouldn't work as a daily driver.  The lower ground clearance of the Taycan means I'd be scraping the bottom too often, while the S is high enough for normal use, plus I can raise it with air suspension.  The S has much more interior space, plenty of room for the kids and luggage.  Even my 3 year old S has better range th BMW and VW both sell more EVs than Tesla in the EU, by a lot and for quite some time.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plug-in_electric_vehicles_in_Europe#Top_selling_plug-in_modelsThose numbers are from 2017.Let's have some updated numbers now the Model 3 is selling in volume.Anecdotal evidence of course, but I very rarely see a Tesla on the streets. Maybe twice a year.I never saw one, but I half time use public transport and read a book while riding or use my tablet.I don't even own a car, but I walk a lot.Here is more recent data. Tesla is crushing BMW and VW in EV sales:https://cleantechnica.com/2019... [cleantechnica.com]Just realized that the link I posted was data just for Germany. Here is European data:https://insideevs.com/news/373... [insideevs.com]Again, Tesla is crushing the competition. Tesla is selling more EVs than VW and BMW combined.R&D cost vs licensing..maybe it's cheaper to just license the tech once it comes of age, than to try to build it yourself?  And given one of the biggest hurdles to mass adoption is charging stations, it's in tesla's interest to push for as many ev's that use their charging standards as possible, even if it's a VW using it vs a Tesla.Side note, how long does patent protection last in the EU?Teslas sold in Europe come with a standard European charging plug. Everybody is using the same standards locally.Side note, how long does patent protection last in the EU?Most countries have patent agreements, that means the original filing country determines how long it lasts.In other words: you don't file  for a patent in EU, you show the papers of your original country and ask for "recognition".https://www.teslarati.com/tesl... [teslarati.com]In what could only be considered an unexpected win, the Tesla Model 3 was able to beat the BMW 3 Series and the Audi A3 as Germanyâ(TM)s Midsize Car of the Year at the Golden Steering Wheel Awards. The award was granted by auto publication AUTO BILD, whose event was graced by Tesla CEO Elon Musk.There's a website called Teslarati?They've been dumping R&D into self driving vehicles for some time. Look at the logos on the 2004 DARPA project, all those companies have had internal self driving divisions since at least then.Methods of locomotion have taken a backseat to that R&D, to the point of just cheating.They can both learn from each other. When you play fast and loose with some things (drive train) you get fast advancements in short time. When you play fast and loose with the self driving part, you get people killed. See: U Elon Musk should have looked at a map. Saying that the factory will be built in Berlin is comparable to saying that it will be built in Manhattan.Berlin is crowded. It is much easier and cheaper to build it in Brandenburg. The Berlin Schönefeld airport is outside of Berlin. It is in Brandenburg. So is the autobahn ring around Berin (the A10).The choice of synecdoche makes perfect sense to actual humans trying to communicate rather than pedants looking to score points.Maybe you yourself should "take your autism pillsx, before barking something that clearly shows how you assume a dumber level of understanding because you aren't even aware of the higher level above yours.We *know* that one can say "in Berlin" to mean those outskirts too. That is the *basis* of the argument. Not its conclusion, like you thought. The conclusion is, that it was delibetately used for manipulative reasons, and the factory will not be in a location that "**in** Berlin" implies. Merely a sleazy l Have you ever considered suicide?  Everyone who knows you would benefit by you giving it a shot.When you're ten miles from the center of the city it's perfectly normal to say you're in Berlin. Saying that the airport and the factory are "in Brandenburg" would be a much more vague a statement. That's the whole state surrounding Berlin. Even worse, Brandenburg is also a city that the airport and the factory are *not* in. You could specify the exact suburb, but then hardly anyone would know what you're talking about unless you clarify it with "a suburb of Berlin". When you fly to JFK you're going to New The thing is that Brandenburg is a different state.Berlin will see no taxes from that factoy.And yet it is still called the Berlin airport. Just like the Vienna airport is in lower Austria, and whole different state. Yet when you can get to the city centre from the airport in 20min no one argues that it "isn't in Vienna".Today's newspapers say that the factory will be built in Grünheide, Brandenburg.That's about 30km (18 miles) east-south-east from the center of Berlin.This is an excuse to raise more capital while the stock is high, there is absolutely no reason for them to build a factory in GermanyOf course there is/are:-  a relatively peaceful country-  a relatively stable government-  a good educated work force-  probably the cheapest city to live in in Germany-  all the infrastructure-  and actually already a local marketFirst they take CaliforniaThen they take Berlin .... 

Profit Whoosh!https://www.youtube.com/watch?... [youtube.com]Electric cars are a real productThat is funny, what actually was the name of the band/song?It is our version ofthe combination of Breitbart and the Daily Mail. Just for reference. Only read by trash.So any awards it gives out means nothing at all, except that somebody pleased the worst kind of lobbyists.Hence, you can assume some very dirty deal between Musk and some lobbyist politicians. Which explains why Musk chose Berlin.Thanks for the update Rei. How many robots will it have, and what color and model, etc? We need to know.Ahh, good ol' 110010001000 who thinks that only one person on a news for nerds site would submit a story about a nerdy relevant company.Glad you brought personal attacks to a discussion. I was beginning to worry you may accidentally say something relevant to the topic. we all know who keeps submitting these stories.Electric car zoomfake autopilot R2space roadster ChristmasThere may be more comments in this discussion. Without JavaScript enabled, you might want to turn on Classic Discussion System in your preferences instead.IBM's 200,000 Macs Have Made a Happier and More Productive Workforce, Study FindsIntel Fixes a Security Flaw It Said Was Repaired 6 Months AgoA budget is just a method of worrying before you spend money, as well
as afterward.