Published: Nov 16, 2019 1:13 p.m. ETTesla’s Model 3 and Model S sedans regain Consumer Reports recommendationsByTwo of Tesla Inc. best-selling vehicles regained Consumer Reports’ recommendation because of their improved reliability, the nonprofit consumer advocacy organization said Thursday.For the Tesla 

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    TSLA, -0.65%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                         mass-market sedan, the Model 3, there were fewer complaints about stuck latches or malfunctioning doors. And the Silicon Valley car maker’s luxury sedan, the Model S, had fewer reported issues with paint and trim quality, Consumer Reports said.That left the Model X, Tesla’s luxury SUV, as the only available Tesla vehicle still not recommended by the organization. Consumer Reports said “numerous problems” have been reported, including faulty falcon-wing doors and “noises and leaks.” Three years ago, the organization called it “fast and flawed.”Tesla did not immediately return a request for comment. The company and Consumer Reports have had a fraught relationship through the years, although it started well enough in 2015 when the Model S scored so beyond Consumer Reports’ rating scale the organization made changes to its scoring methodology to account for the sedan’s “exceptionally strong performance.” Related: Tesla’s Autopilot feature lags ‘far behind’ a human driver, Consumer Reports says A few months later, Consumer Reports dropped the Model S from its list of recommended cars due to reliability issues. It has been up and down ever since. Tesla shares rose 0.9% on Thursday, trying to resume its upward trajectory. The stock fell 1.1% on Wednesday, snapping a five-day winning streak. For the year, Tesla is up 5.0%, compared with gains of 23.5% for the S&P 500 index 

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    SPX, -0.21%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                         and 19.1% for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. 

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    DJIA, -0.06%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                         
                                            Claudia Assis is a San Francisco-based reporter for MarketWatch. Follow her on Twitter @ClaudiaAssisMW.
                                        Join the conversationCopyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
            By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service,
            Privacy Policy, and
            Cookie Policy.
          
          Intraday Data provided by FACTSET and subject to terms of use.
          Historical and current end-of-day data provided by FACTSET.
          All quotes are in local exchange time.
          Real-time last sale data for U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only.
          Intraday data delayed at least 15 minutes or per exchange requirements.
        