The top handle design is presented as a convenient way to tote around an extra power bank -- one that, in the case of Volta, features a USB-C port on the front of the handle offering 7.4v versus the 5v commonly offered by commercial external batteries. When Volta isn't needed as a handle, that component can be removed to use it as an ordinary power bank.The team behind Volta presents the device as being akin to the combination of an NPF-970 battery and a top handle, but as noted by DIY Photography, the claim doesn't quite hold up. The 8,000mAh capacity comes from two 4,000mAh power cells wired in series, which works out to 29.6Wh; Sony's 6,600mAh NP-F970 7.2v battery, on the other hand, features 47.4Wh.Regardless, the Volta is available to back on Indiegogo with pledges starting at $32 USD. Shipping to backers is expected to start in December 2019, assuming the campaign is successful and everything goes according to plan.Via: DIY PhotographyDisclaimer: Remember to do your research with any crowdfunding project. DPReview does its best to share only the projects that look legitimate and come from reliable creators, but as with any crowdfunded campaign, there’s always the risk of the product or service never coming to fruition.I'm pretty sure the Chinese have already done something like this, remember seeing it while browsing for 11.11 sales.Not too interested in this top grip thingy but i'd love to see an extended size battery grip for my G9. Instead of it having space for one ILC battery, make it bigger with a rechargeable 10k mAh cell inside. That's something i would pay for.Great idea!I hope those 21700 are the variety with built-in over/under voltage protection circuitry. I dont think I want to be holding this when the battery explosively vents.I do like the idea of this, but I would maybe want to just mount the tube on the side or under the rig instead of in the carry handle.I thought tesla's used 18650s. When did they switch to 21700s?They use both.Model 3 is the first, most likely any new model going forward will be 21700.Great idea. The fact that it is balanced in a handle is much handier than using a power adapter array that throws off the balance in my rig (like the Atmos Powerstation). Anything to reduce the unbalanced load is a good thing in my books.If you are PK to buy 100 of these you can order them from China for about $19-24 each (for custom design items).I do order custom power banks from China as gifts for our customers so know the pricing.In any case, there is nothing there to go wrong shoukd they have desire to make it happen.The post doesn't say if the power bank is USB Power Delivery (USB-PD) compatible?  There are various flavors of USB Power Banks with diffrent specs..  It would be nice to know exactly which specification this is designed to. https://www.usb.org/usbc For example, depending of what type of power bank I use with my X-T3, I can only charge the battery while the camera is off. If I use certain USB-PD power banks, I can supply power while the camera is on.I recently bought 1 of the USB-PD compatible power banks and when I used it, I wondered if any one made a version that would screw into the bottom of the camera so I would not have to put the battery in my pocket.  This may be a better solution if it is indeed USB-PD compatible.They haven't even produced a working concept and yet they expect to ship in December 2019...And behold their own words: "The project team has not yet produced a working demo for their concept. Their ability to successfully produce a prototype may be affected by product development or financial challenges."Dpreview, you've been played for free advertising, just for an idea at startup.Shocking. So they have a Prototype, which is NOT a prototype.Doesn't appear this would be allowed on a plane, in either checked or carry-ons:https://www.faa.gov/hazmat/packsafe/more_info/?hazmat=7Why would it not be? 29.6Wh is under 100. I carry multiple Omni 20+ batteries at 71Wh each when I fly.You can definitely check this. I regularly (minimum 8 flights a year) check 6 PCB Vagabond batteries into the overhead compartments. (I use the Vagabonds to power my computer when we're on location and power is iffy/unavailible).If TSA allows that, they'll allow this.Looks like it would be very usefulThe Fujifilm X-Pro3's new viewfinder, new screen and titanium construction all make for an appealing camera, but perhaps only for a certain type of photographer.Weighing in at just 249g, the Mavic Mini fits in the palm of your hand. You give up a few features in exchange for that tiny size, but we still found it to be a solid performer.The Epson V600 is a reasonably priced scanner aimed at analog film shooters. It's fairly easy to operate and capable of decent image quality, but still easily bested by scans from our local photo lab.The EOS M200 is Canon's new entry-level mirrorless camera. It's easy to use, takes great photos, and crams a big APS-C sensor into one of the smallest camera bodies on the market. We think that's a recipe for success – get all the details in our full review.Sony's a6100 adds powerful autofocus and a touchscreen to its low-cost mirrorless camera. But little inconsistencies mean it's not quite the excellent beginners camera it could be.Whether you make a living out of taking professional portraits, or are the weekend warrior who knows their way around flashes and reflectors, you'll want a camera with high resolution, exceptional autofocus and a good selection of portrait prime lenses. Click through to see our picks.Family moments are precious and sometimes you want to capture that time spent with friends or loved-ones in better quality than your phone can manage. We've selected a group of cameras that are easy to keep with you, and that can adapt to take photos wherever and whenever something memorable happens.What’s the best camera for less than $1000? The best cameras for under $1000 should have good ergonomics and controls, great image quality and be capture high-quality video. In this buying guide we’ve rounded up all the current interchangeable lens cameras costing under $1000 and recommended the best.What's the best camera for under $500? These entry-level cameras should be easy to use, offer good image quality and easily connect with a smartphone for sharing. In this buying guide we've rounded up all the current interchangeable lens cameras costing less than $500 and recommended the best.What's the best camera for shooting landscapes? High resolution, weather-sealed bodies and wide dynamic range are all important. In this buying guide we've rounded-up several great cameras for shooting landscapes, and recommended the best.We've rounded up a few accessories and gadgets that will help the smartphone photographer in your life open up new creative possibilities and get the most out of their device.RED maintains its hold on the compression of Raw video after the latest challenge, by Apple this time, fails to get support from the courts.The two new kits from PolarPro include a mattebox for PolarPro filters, as well as a dedicated landscape filter kit. Volta might not be conventional or the most aesthetically appealing device, but it’s hard to argue with an extra 8,000mAh battery power on the go. The Fujifilm X-Pro3's new viewfinder, new screen and titanium construction all make for an appealing camera, but perhaps only for a certain type of photographer.Our tests using Blackmagic Design's Disk Speed Test program confirmed the 1TB version of the Plugable NVMe SSD can reach sustained write speeds of 1915MB per second and sustained read speeds of 2331MB per second.The Sigma fp has clearly been designed with filmmakers in mind, and after using one for a few days, we suspect that they'll love it.Whether you make a living out of taking professional portraits, or are the weekend warrior who knows their way around flashes and reflectors, you'll want a camera with high resolution, exceptional autofocus and a good selection of portrait prime lenses. Click through to see our picks.Kodak film is making progress, in revenue figures at least, while the rest of the company posts a loss for the last quarter.The 3rd-gen lineup includes the 24-core 3960X and 32-core 3970x CPUs made with a 7nm 'Zen 2' core architecture, 140/144MB cache and up 88 PCIe 4.0 lanes. AMD says the new CPUs will offer a 47% performance boost in Adobe Premiere.The two lenses are the first designed specifically for 8K-capable broadcast cameras from Canon, which it claims are becoming more popular in documentary production and sports coverage.The lens was teased earlier this year and effectively replaces the 75mm F1.8 Heliar Classic lens Voigtlander previously offered. It's not every day you get to speak to the man who's had a hand in the design of every professional Canon SLR since the T90.Family moments are precious and sometimes you want to capture that time spent with friends or loved-ones in better quality than your phone can manage. We've selected a group of cameras that are easy to keep with you, and that can adapt to take photos wherever and whenever something memorable happens.Nikon and Canon have both launched a new APS-C mirrorless camera each, and now that we've had a chance to use both of them, here's how we think they compare against each other.When her work began to include more and more video, pro photographer Suzi Pratt gradually drifted from her DSLRs to mirrorless hybrid cameras. So what's it like switching back to a DSLR for a vacation?The confirmation comes from Instagram's CEO Adam Mosseri from an interview earlier this week. Weighing in at just 249g, the Mavic Mini fits in the palm of your hand. You give up a few features in exchange for that tiny size, but we still found it to be a solid performer.Jordan reviews the Vazen 40mm T2, the first anamorphic lens designed for Micro Four Thirds cameras. In the process, he gives us a great primer on using anamorphic optics for both video and stills.Wikiview makes it easy to search through the vast archive of Wikimedia Commons images in a fun and unique way. It appears Adobe is interested in expanding the possibilities of live-streaming with direct integration into its collection of Creative Cloud apps. Flares are back in fashion according to Zeiss, as it launches collection of seven prime movie lenses with new T*Blue coating for controlled flare but no loss of contrastAccording to rumors, the new sensor should provide a resolution between 60 and 64MP. The Sony a6600 made its debut in late August, and in the months since then we've been testing it out in a wide range of situations. Our initial sample image gallery has been updated with images from our latest testing.One of Adobe's 'Sneaks' it showcased at Adobe MAX is #ProjectAboutFace, a prototype tool that uses AI to detect when edits have been made to a face with Photoshop's Face-Aware Liquify tool and undo the changes. The camera features a built-in 2.4-inch touchscreen, 1/1.7" image sensors and multi-frame stacking.Xiaomi just released the Mi Note 10, but a new patent and code inside a beta software update hint that there could be an 8K-capable Xiaomi phone in the near future. Getty has announced it's phasing out rights-managed licensing for creative images in favor of royalty-free licensing due to 'the changing needs of our [image buyers].'By November 30th, the United Kingdom will require all drone operators to pass a pilot test and register their drone with the Civil Aviation Authority.Take a look at our first sample shots from Sigma's surprisingly small full-framer.