
Published on November 12th, 2019 |
                by Cynthia ShahanNovember 12th, 2019 by Cynthia Shahan Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk’s visions are being realized well in and out of this world, as the past week reveals. Elon Musk’s life has been surfing through land, sky, and space this week. Last fall, Musk tweeted, “Pace of innovation is all that matters in the long run.” He is certainly demonstrating that’s his companies’ mutual obsession.Pace of innovation is all that matters in the long run— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) September 26, 2018Successful deployment of 60 Starlink satellites confirmed! pic.twitter.com/bpBqO9oYR3— SpaceX (@SpaceX) November 11, 2019Falcon 9 first stage has landed on the Of Course I Still Love You droneship – the fourth launch and landing of this booster pic.twitter.com/qQvH7pwMDO— SpaceX (@SpaceX) November 11, 2019 X Auto’s Iqtidar Ali and mutual friend Morten Lund yesterday revealed Musk’s whereabouts as he alerted us all to the successful deployment of 60 Starlink satellites. It wasn’t in space, but rather, in Germany. Say hello to SpaceX'/Elon Musk's Gulfstream G650ER entering European airspace. Wonder what its business here is?  #GF4@teslawelt @jpr007 @fuzzylogically @Model3Owners @DMC_Ryan @tesla_raj @bobbyllew @FullyChargedDan @pksilvia @BarkMSmeagol @ray4tesla @XAutoWorld100 @nasalahe pic.twitter.com/denp5YuKLJBerlin Schönefeld it is pic.twitter.com/1iOXu2AyIhFalcon 9 delivers 60 Starlink satellites to orbit pic.twitter.com/Vgw10m0Tkz— SpaceX (@SpaceX) November 11, 2019Musk is in Berlin!— BSB (@Genralanxiety) November 11, 2019 Following those tweets, German engineer and CleanTechnica contributor Alex Voigt shed more light on the matter. Thats no surprise at all.Its about Government support & that needs to be negotiated. Merkel owns a PhD in Physics so they will understand each other & she is pragmatic.Its overdue— Alex (@alex_avoigt) November 11, 2019Falcon 9 delivers 60 Starlink satellites to orbit pic.twitter.com/Vgw10m0Tkz— SpaceX (@SpaceX) November 11, 2019Iqtidar points out that Musk’s timing is right on target for this topic:“2019 was the year when ‘Elon Time’ came as close as possible to the real-time and things he announced late last year like the Model Y reveal and estimate production start time and the Gigafactory 3 China have come to fruition, unexpected by many.”The reports are that Elon Musk is indeed in Germany. His flight over took place as the Falcon 9 was preparing to send 60 Starlink satellites into orbit on November 11, Monday.One does wonder about the significance of Musk not being at the point of departure. He is consistently involved, with his charismatic presence definitely a prime highlight at these events. It must have been something important to pull him away.Iqtidar points to a list of Musk to-dos:According to Elon, the announcement of Gigafactory 4’s location in Europe will come soon. Coming before the holiday season would be good for generous mainstream media coverage. It remains to be seen, but CleanTechnica will be following closely.Update: Yes, Gigafactory 4 will be in Berlin:— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) November 12, 2019 
 
Follow CleanTechnica on Google News.
It will make you happy & help you live in peace for the rest of your life.Tags: Elon Musk, Europe, Germany, Space, SpaceX, Starlink, Starlink satellites, Tesla, Tesla Europe, Tesla Gigafactories, Tesla Gigafactory 4, Tesla Innovation, Tesla Model 3, Tesla/SpaceX CEOCynthia Shahan Cynthia Shahan started writing by doing research as a social cultural and sometimes medical anthropology thinker. She studied and practiced both Waldorf education, and Montessori education. Eventually becoming an organic farmer, licensed AP, and mother of four unconditionally loving spirits, teachers, and environmentally conscious beings born with spiritual insights and ethics beyond this world. (She was able to advance more in this way led by her children.)Advertise with CleanTechnica to get your company in front of millions of monthly readers.

The content produced by this site is for entertainment purposes only. Opinions and comments published on this site may not be sanctioned by, and do not necessarily represent the views of Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc., its owners, sponsors, affiliates, or subsidiaries.CleanTechnica is the #1 cleantech-focused news & analysis website in the US & the world, focusing primarily on electric cars, solar energy, wind energy, & energy storage.© 2019   Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc.