
People look at a Tesla Motors vehicle at a showroom in Miami.   | Photo Credit: 
AFP
 Tesla Inc Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk said on Tuesday the electric-car maker will build its first European factory as well as an engineering and design centre in Berlin.By building a plant in Germany, Tesla will be able to add the “Made in Germany” accolade. Berlin also has earmarked financial support for manufacturing electric car battery cells.Mr. Musk, in a tweet, said that Tesla will build batteries, powertrains and vehicles, starting with Model Y lower-priced sports utility vehicle at the Berlin factory.Last month, Tesla said it expected its European factory to start production in 2021. The car-maker is also gearing up to open its factory in Shanghai.Mr. Musk made the announcement about the Berlin plant at the Golden Steering Wheel awards ceremony in Germany. He said the factory will be near the new Berlin airport. Mr. Musk had said in June last year that Germany is the frontrunner for its first factory in Europe.“Tesla is coming to Brandenburg with a big investment,” Dietmar Woidke, state premier of Brandenburg, which surrounds Berlin, said in a statement. “We lobbied for this for a long time in intensive talks and with good arguments.”The company is yet to prove it can be consistently profitable. Tesla has said it expects to be cash flow positive, but faces big investments with the launch of new factories and development of products including a pickup truck and a semi-truck.Mr. Musk's appearance at the awards ceremony is another example of Tesla's efforts to co-opt marketing tactics employed by German manufacturers, which have a reputation for quality.Tesla, for instance, has tested its cars on the Nordschleife, the notorious northern loop of the Nuerburgring racing track, as a way to burnish the brand's reputation for reliability and sporting prowess.The company has an engineering firm in Pruem, Germany, that specializes in automated manufacturing systems for battery-making plants.In October, Reuters reported that Tesla is aiming to start production for its factory in China amid uncertainties around orders, labour and suppliers.You have reached your limit for free articles this month.Register to The Hindu for free and get unlimited access for 30 days. Already have an account ? Sign in
Sign up for a 30-day free trial. Sign UpFind mobile-friendly version of articles from the day's newspaper in one easy-to-read list.Enjoy reading as many articles as you wish without any limitations.A select list of articles that match your interests and tastes.Move smoothly between articles as our pages load instantly.A one-stop-shop for seeing the latest updates, and managing your preferences.We brief you on the latest and most important developments, three times a day.
*Our Digital Subscription plans do not currently include the e-paper ,crossword, iPhone, iPad mobile applications and print. Our plans enhance your reading experience.

Support quality journalism - Subscribe to The Hindu DigitalPlease enter a valid email address.
Printable version | Nov 13, 2019 6:03:02 PM | https://www.thehindu.com/business/Industry/tesla-to-build-first-european-plant-in-berlin-musk-says/article29959041.ece

© THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD.

Target for NIM is 3% for FY20, we have to get the pricing right: Indian Bank MD

Why has the Supreme Court order backing the Department of Telecom’s definition of adjusted gross revenue hit the telcos? 
Subscribe to The Hindu now and get unlimited access.
Already have an account? Sign In 
Sign up for a 30-day free trial.
Sign UpSupport The Hindu's new online experience.Already a user? Sign In