These Devastating Photos Show The Effects Of The Massive Bushfires In Australia BuzzFeed :-(Where plastic outnumbers fish by seven to one BBC and Baby Fish Nurseries Are Riddled With ‘Prey-Sized’ Plastic, Alarming Study Finds ViceThe Cinema of Inadvertence, or Why I Like Bad Movies HedgeHog ReviewGulf Oysters Are Dying, Putting a Southern Tradition at Risk New York Times. Resilc: “Too bad, but gotta have ethanol in iowa. Runoff tastes good they say.”These maps show how many people will lose their homes to rising seas—and it’s worse than we thought Popsci (David L)Climate Change Is Breaking Open America’s Nuclear Tomb Vice (resilc)The climate crisis will make entire cities uninhabitable. It’s time to head underground WiredChina?Tariffs on China Imports Emerge as Hurdle to Trade Deal Wall Street JournalHong Kong police warn city on ‘brink of total collapse’ Financial TimesWhy China wants Trump re-elected in 2020 Asia Times The Right Way to Reduce Your China Product Costs China Law Blog. Troy P. Way way more interesting and revealing than the headline. Angela Merkel urges EU to seize control of data from US tech titans Financial Times (David L)BrexitNigel Farage warned he has ‘48 hours to save Brexit’ as Leave donors call for him to pull further Brexit Party candidates TelegraphElon Musk says Brexit made him decide against Tesla electric car Gigafactory in UK https://t.co/IYoAxjqnh1— The Independent (@Independent) November 13, 2019  Senior Tories admit Farage right to say no-deal Brexit still ‘on the table’ IndependentBoliviaBolivia coup led by Christian fascist paramilitary leader and millionaire – with foreign support Greyzone ProjectBolivia scraps joint lithium project with German company Deutsche Welle, November 4, 2019. Bill B: “Morales had blamed the opposition for organizing the protests against the lithium project to undermine his government.” Note that Tesla’s stock spiked up when Maduro resigned. Evo Morales Finally Went Too Far for Bolivia Atlantic (Bill B). The charge is that Morales wanted to be president for life.SyraqistanUS wants to create illegal quasi-state in eastern Syria: Russia AMN (furzy)Big Brother is Watching You WatchA US federal court finds suspicionless searches of phones at the border is illegal TechCrunchIntel struggles to close potentially damaging chip flaws Financial Times (David L)Imperial Collapse WatchSecDef: Expect ‘Trimming, Reducing, Some Eliminations’ in 2021 Budget – Defense One. Resilc: “‘As Army Secretary, Esper was known for his “Night Court” review, credited with freeing up $25 billion over five years for higher-priority efforts.’ After an increase of 160bil. what a jokester.”Army’s new recruiting ads focus less on combat roles ABC. Resilc: “How about signing up to be a combat DJ?”Trump TransitionUS held record number of migrant children in custody in 2019 Associated Press (furzy)White House to use webcams to create live feed of border wall construction Washington PostDivided Supreme Court leans toward allowing Trump to end DACA The HillTrump advisers exploring tax proposal that would lower “middle class” rate to 15 percent Washington PostFormer Trump campaign official testifies Stone gave updates on WikiLeaks hack The HillNikki Haley Is a Trump Loyalist Until the Moment It Becomes Inconvenient Esquire (resilc)Trump Tells Crowd Ivanka Has Created 14 Million New Jobs New York Magazine. Resilc: “And cured most cancers to boot.”ImpeachmentThe GOP’s defense of Trump, annotated CNN (furzy)There’s a Surprisingly Plausible Path to Removing Trump From Office Politico (resilc)Awful new @Gallup stat: More than 13% of American adults — or about 34 million people — report knowing of at least one friend or family member in the past five years who died because they couldn’t afford healthcare https://t.co/7lJIrNouNR— Sarah Boxer (@Sarah_Boxer) November 12, 2019  Maya Rockeymoore Cummings, widow of Baltimore Rep. Elijah Cummings, will seek his seat in Congress Baltimore Sun (furzy)‘Go back to California’: Wave of newcomers fuels backlash in Boise  Los Angeles Times2020Why Wouldn’t Michael Bloomberg Run for President? New RepublicHillary Clinton ‘under enormous pressure’ to run in 2020 BBC (Jokerstein). A measure of the size of her echo chamber and ego. Did she miss that her last  grifting  speaking tour with Bill played to halls full of empty seats, even with severely discounted ticket prices?Turns Out, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Is Huge in Iowa Mother Jones (resilc)Former coal baron Don Blankenship announces presidential bid. Slate (resilc) Verso Corporation Announces Sale of Androscoggin and Stevens Point Mills for $400 million Yahoo. RPW: “The incredible shrinking Verso.” Another sorry chapter in the private equity ruination of coated paper mills that should have stayed competitive. Driving Tests Coming for Autonomous Cars Spectrum IEEE (David L)U.S. auto showrooms need more electric cars, environmental group says Reuters. Resilc: “I have a 2012 Prius with 92k on it. I will dump it before 100k and buy a gasoline powered car. It is way too complex and the marginal gas benefit isnt that great for me. Complex=repair$ and finding the labor qualified to fix…”The Growth and Challenges of Cyber Insurance Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (resilc)Class WarfareThe SoftBank Effect: How $100 Billion Left Workers in a Hole New York Times (David L)DISINVESTMENT, DISCOURAGEMENT AND INEQUITY IN SMALL BUSINESS LENDING NCRC. Quelle surprise, banks discriminate against women and minority-owned small businessesAntidote du jour (Lee):And a bonus:— Susanta Nanda IFS (@susantananda3) November 12, 2019  See yesterday’s Links and Antidote du Jour here.hand over the pup and no one will get hurtTime to head underground?
Time to reach out to my bookshelf and re-read Isaac Asimov’s “The caves of steel”Or watch Dr. StrangeloveI guess this is how we all end up living in dome cities.“Hostile surface weather” is not a new phenomenon, just a changing one…Wait a moment. Isn’t that the origin of the Morlocks?If you have Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD – winter depression), well, best of luck to you.
As for the rest of the world, at least Vitamin D supplements are sort of inexpensive.Possibly the cutest Pit Bull that I have seen.Re: Bolivia coup led by Christian fascist paramilitary leader and millionaire – with foreign support These disgusting people are christians in the same way that North Korea is democratic. I sometimes wonder if these types of organizations are not really meant to discredit real christians? It’s certainly a hell of a long way from Liberation Theology which “sought to apply religious faith by aiding the poor and oppressed through involvement in political and civic affairs. It stressed both heightened awareness of the sinful socioeconomic structures that caused social inequities and active participation in changing those structures.”My answer to “christians” is:https://ffrf.org/If you’re going to share Elon Musk tweets – it would fit in NC wheelhouse more to show what a fraud he pushes & sharing those tweets.Fraud you say?!Here is but one resource which includes not only depositions under oath but also various links to investigations that will hopefully inspire NC to start digging even a little deeper into this poster child of what’s wrong with so much including ZIRP, SiliCON Valley, regulatory capture and all the other ills of today.https://www.plainsite.org/profiles/musk-elon-reeve/Includes deposition into family bailout by shareholders of Solar City(SCTY) and much much more.Or did you hear the one about tax payers getting screwed by a billionaire due to NY writing off ~$1B in grants: https://buffalonews.com/2019/11/08/pennies-on-the-dollar-the-tesla-plant-isnt-worth-nearly-what-the-state-paid-to-build-it/Someday this will end and NC being early trying to stop this fraud will help save innocent lives.As Youtube will be cracking down, the Trump “impeachment” looms and we probably had a hand in Bolivia’s coup I have saved this oldie but goodie before it disappears:
Bill Moyers The Secret Governmenthttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHet9H6ZTLsBeautiful puppy! Such expressive eyes.
Dear ambrit, if HC enters the race, we should band together and get you a prize. And you can pick my lottery numbers!Further thoughts on Bolivia in light of events yesterday.It appears to me that there are two crises of legitimacy in Bolivia. The first one I wrote about in previous comments relating to Evo Morales’ decision to run for a fourth term.The second crisis of legitimacy is unfolding now. To understand this, you have to consult the Bolivian constitution.Article 169 establishes the order of succession to the presidency, which is as follows:1. Vice President
2. President of the Senate
3. Leader of the Camara of Deputies (similar to our House of Representatives).As of November 10, the following had “resigned:”1. President
2. Vice President
3. President of the Senate
4. Leader of the Bolivian House
5. First Vice President of the Senate.Offices 1 – 4 are constitutional offices. #5 is an office established by the Senate itself under its power to make its own rules (like our Senate). The rules of the Senate require that the President and the First Vice President of the Senate belong to the majority party (currently MAS, Evo Morales’ party) and that the second vice president belong to a minority party.The Senate rules also say that in the absence of the President of the Senate and the First Vice President, the Second Vice President “replaces” the President of the Senate.So, what happened yesterday? The Second Vice President, a member of the minority party, declared herself President of the Senate and therefore President of Bolivia per Article 169 of the Constitution.The majority party (MAS) refuses to accept this and I agree with them in that what happened does not legitimately follow the constitutional order. So, what would have been a more legitimate procedure? The first thing to note is that all of the persons who were in office as of October 20, 2019 had been elected in 2015 in an election which no one is claiming was fraudulent.The second thing to note is that the Bolivian Constitution, like the U.S. constitution, vests the power to remove the President and Vice President of the country in the Bolivian Congress. So, if the opposition believed that there was election fraud, that the President and Vice President were responsible for the fraud, and that fraud was serious enough to warrant their removal from office, they should have brought the matter of removal to the Congress. That would have gone nowhere for the same reason that removal of Donald Trump is likely to go nowhere: the President’s party controls the body which has the power to remove him.So, the first illegitimate move the opposition made was to force Evo Morales and his vice president to resign rather than bring the issue to the Congress.Next there is the issue of the legitimacy of the Second Vice-President of the Senate declaring herself President of the Country. The Constitution does not set up any procedure for the order of succession of the President of the Senate. It leaves that to the Senate itself. And the rules of the Senate make it clear that the President of the Senate must be a member of the majority party (i.e. MAS).It is fairly clear that there was coercion (which may have included threats to their families) of the Senate President and First Vice President to induce them to resign.It is even more clear (at least to me) that the Senate itself should have elected the replacement to the President of the Senate and the First Vice President of the Senate. This may not be technically stated in the rules of the Senate, but the idea that the majority ought to control those two offices is clearly stated.The way that this was done, therefore, is nothing less than a power grab by a person who would never stand a chance of being elected to the presidency herself and who is being backed by people like “Macho Camacho” who have never even tried to stand for election to anything.Bear in mind that the indigenous population of Bolivia is in the majority and that the people who are now “bringing the Bible” into the Presidential palace strongly opposed the adoption of the current constitution and the “Plurinacional” nature of the country which it recognizes.I cannot see how this minority right wing expects to keep control over the population, even with the help of the military, especially since the majority indigenous population has exercised their power over the past 14 years by adopting a constitution and putting an indigenous person in the presidency, however flawed that person turned out to be.Note that Tesla’s stock spiked up when Maduro resigned.Unless I missed some news, Maduro should be Morales.“There’s a Surprisingly Plausible Path to Removing Trump From Office”.The end game for the impeachers is to get Trump to resign. Barring that, it is highly unlikely the House will vote to impeach. The Senate will likely conduct a trial that will be a mini Church Committee inquiry into the activities of the intelligence community. Does anyone seriously believe the intelligence community will allow the House to empower Rand Paul to question Brennan and Clapper under oath in public?Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email *  

