Post written byParshant JainFounder and CEO of OrderGenie and SimplifyReality, makers of branded e-commerce experiences powered by creative AI.Because our concept of intelligence is so closely linked with humanity, some people fear AI means a world run by automatons or the end of the human era. I don't think personal computers or the internet have made us any less human. In the course of a single lifetime, we've seen these technologies become a seamless extension of humankind's collective imagination. And I think AI's time has come to join them.AI resembles human intelligence in that both are built to notice and analyze patterns. In that mindset, I recognize a rhythm to the way we think and dream of new technologies. By looking at AI through the lens of this well-established pattern, we can see its role in our lives more clearly. I've broken this pattern down into three phases: theory, utility and creativity.It All Starts With TheoryIn the theory phase, an emerging technology exists in the imagination, like Nikola Tesla's internet-predicting idea of a "world wireless system" in the early 1900s. This phase is exhilarating and filled with potential, but mostly for the people closest to that field. When new technologies aren't widely understood, they haven't yet been enriched by multidisciplinary cross-pollination. In the theory phase, technologies aren't ready to be understood more broadly because they lack history and history's crucial element for inspiring learning and creativity: stories.
Ideas Become RealityAs technology becomes usable, it enters the utility phase. In this phase, the new technology becomes an undisputed reality. If the theory phase is thrilling for a select few people, the utility phase tends toward the utilitarian. For example, early computers were calculating devices, and the internet started out as a document-sharing system. That sounds pedestrian, but the utility phase is massively important because it enables a consciousness shift to take place. Once a technology's real-world applications have provided us with sufficient stories, we shift into the final stage, creativity.The Consciousness ShiftThis shift is well-illustrated by a short story. By today's standards, the first personal computer was the very definition of rudimentary. The first program ever typed into 1975's MITAS Altair 8800 was "10 print 2+2." After typing "run," it typed back the correct answer: "4." In retrospect, we can easily see the 8800 as the spark that ignited the microcomputer revolution, even inspiring then-college freshman Bill Gates to drop out of Harvard.The Creativity PhaseEven a visionary like Nikola Tesla could scarcely have imagined today's internet meme culture, or Russia's successful use of Facebook to undermine American unity. Creativity is interdependent, serendipitous and, now more than ever, exponential. It comes from everywhere at once and takes on a life of its own. While theory and utility phases are the domains of experts and enthusiasts, the creativity phase brings in the rest of the world. Defined by the cross-pollination of ideas and the spontaneous discovery of new connections, the cusp of the creativity phase is right where we are today with AI.AI UnboundUntil now, brilliant thought leaders have been looking at AI through the rather narrow lens of utility. For example, Larry Page predicted that "artificial intelligence would be the ultimate version of Google." The majority of business people I talk to see AI as a customer service tool, or as a way to leverage big data to better target audiences. However, AI's ubiquity has now created the kind of narratives necessary for widespread understanding and engagement. AI's influence will soon be unbound to the way we use it now. I predict that AI's greatest contribution to humankind will be as a catalyst for creativity.AI For BrandsAI has been treated as a commodity, but that will change fast as the conversation expands to include the creative class. In 2002, Apple democratized content creation by offering everyone the means to create slick-looking photos and videos. In 2019, maintaining a shared gallery of original photography is practically mandatory. So how will brands use AI to transform our culture? I think it will have to do with brand relationships.The Love ConnectionSimilar to AI, we endow brands with human-like attributes like an identity, a voice and values. If AI's mimicry of human emotion is somewhat superficial, brands excel at going deep. Moreover, AI can help them go even deeper. We know that love and loyalty are part of brand relationships. Now, AI has the potential to nurture intimacy and long-term commitment to create real brand friendships. To paraphrase Derek Sivers, if you're making people happy, they will be happy to pay you. AI can help brands be better friends by using data to be kind, welcoming and even playful.Brand FriendshipsThere are thousands of consumers who love Prada but can't afford a $3,000 bag — today. AI can reveal who will eventually buy in two years, to celebrate their wedding or a job promotion. And brands can use that insight to imagine special branded experiences to keep those relationships warm in the meantime.If brands are genuinely friends with consumers, it's not all about the upsell. AI can segment the Burberry T-shirt customer from the buyer of a $300 scarf to show the right products to the right customer. Knowing each fan's specific hopes, dreams, and means, the branding team can respond creatively. For today's dreamers who will buy in the future, brands can create communities that reinforce fandom. Leveraging AI, it's possible to keep thousands of fans in sync with shared experiences and shared emotions on a large scale, like Beyonce's Beyhive. Stories from AI's utility phase provide the inspiration, but the real magic happens in the creativity phase. Once brand strategists and creatives are used to working with AI, there can be no doubt they'll take it — and us — to places that techies and businesspeople like me could never have dreamed.Founder and CEO of OrderGenie and SimplifyReality, makers of branded e-commerce experiences powered by creative AI. Read Parshant Jain's full executive profile here....