Published: Nov 13, 2019 5:57 a.m. ETByThere are certainly good reasons for picking Germany, and Berlin in particular, as a site for a battery plant and a research-and-development center for Tesla Inc.But in a quick interview with Auto Express, Tesla 

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    TSLA, -0.61%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                         co-founder and Chief Executive Elon Musk made clear why he didn’t consider the U.K.Musk didn’t elaborate. A reporter for the BBC, Faisal Islam, tweeted that one issue Brexit raises for Tesla in particular is whether parts produced in the U.K. would qualify as E.U. content.specific technical issue around electric cars and Brexit that I reported a year ago.The value of the electric battery powertrain is a large proportion of value of finished car, much more than petrol engine would be.Therefore, v difficult to risk it not counting as EU content Related: Elon Musk says Tesla will build gigafactory near Berlin The U.K. seems likely to pursue a path of Brexit, as election polls show the Conservatives with a sizeable lead over Labour. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has reached an exit agreement with the European Union that has yet to be ratified by the U.K. Parliament. 
                                            Steve Goldstein is MarketWatch markets editor for Europe. Follow him on Twitter: @MKTWgoldstein.
                                        Join the conversationCopyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
            By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service,
            Privacy Policy, and
            Cookie Policy.
          
          Intraday Data provided by FACTSET and subject to terms of use.
          Historical and current end-of-day data provided by FACTSET.
          All quotes are in local exchange time.
          Real-time last sale data for U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only.
          Intraday data delayed at least 15 minutes or per exchange requirements.
        