BREAKING: Stock Futures Down Ahead Of Powell Testimony
Millennial investors favor a certain type of stock for sure. But their most favorite stock of all is now an S&P 500 tech darling: Apple (AAPL).Pushing aside Amazon.com (AMZN) as their No.1 holding, Apple is now the most popular stock with millennials (born in the early 80s to the early 2000s). That's according to an Investor's Business Daily analysis of the most widely held 100 stocks by millennials as of Sept. 30, 2019, by trade clearing firm Apex Clearing. It's another interesting trend besides millennials selling off this stock everyone else is buying.And Apple isn't the only stock representing millennials' preference for the Technology Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLK) members. Two other S&P 500 tech stocks are in millennials' top 10 holdings, including Microsoft (MSFT) and Advanced Micro Devices (AMD).The fact the Technology Select Sector SPDR is up nearly 40% this year — blowing away the other 10 sectors — doesn't seem to discourage millennials looking to buy high and sell higher."Technology is still a big focus for millennial investors," said Bill Capuzzi, CEO of Apex Clearing.It's easy to see why millennials' portfolios shifted to Apple in the third quarter. Shares of the iPhone maker are up 32.5% since the beginning of the third quarter. On Oct. 30, Apple reported an adjusted quarterly profit of $3.03 a share. That topped earnings expectations by nearly 7%.Analysts are getting even more bullish on Apple. The company is expected to earn $13.05 a share in fiscal 2020. If right, that would be nearly 10% growth. That sure beats the company's 0.2% profit contraction in fiscal 2019.Meanwhile, shares of Amazon are skidding. That largely explains their decline in investors' portfolios as of Sept 30. Amazon.com's shares are down 6.4% in price since the second half of the year kicked off.The online retailer's shares fell into the penalty box following Amazon.com's third-quarter earnings report on Oct. 24. The company's adjusted profit of $4.23 a share missed views by nearly 6%.Even so, Amazon remains the No. 2 holding in millennials' portfolios.Given that millennials live online, their leaning to tech isn't surprising. But Apex's Capuzzi was surprised to see the costly class A shares of Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) land as millennials' 64th most popular stock. Warren Buffett's giant cash pile is a draw for investors. And yet, the stock didn't even rank in the top 100 in the second quarter.But don't think millennials are ponying up $330,000 to buy one share of Berkshire Class A. "At a price point of over $330,000 a share, it's safe to say that not many millennials are buying individual shares of BRKA," Capuzzi said.Instead, millennials are taking advantage of many brokers' dollar-based fractional trading programs, he says. "This allows, for example, someone to buy $500 of a company they like without having to buy a full share."But still, the "A stock" for millennials is now Apple.Follow Matt Krantz on Twitter @mattkrantzYOU MAY ALSO LIKE: 5 Ways Financial Advisors Can Land Millennial ClientsMillennials Take Inventive, Alarming Steps To Buy Their First HomesWhat Do These Midcap, Millennial And Solar Stocks Have In Common?Join IBD Live For Stock Ideas Each Morning Before The Open
8:25 AM ET
Unlike what some academics in finance say, investors can in fact time the stock market. First, use charts properly. Second,... 
8:25 AM ET
Unlike what some academics in finance say, investors can in... Get instant access to exclusive stock lists, expert market analysis and powerful tools with 5 weeks of IBD Digital for only $5!Get market updates, educational videos, webinars, and stock analysis.Learn how you can make more money with IBD's investing tools, top-performing stock lists, and educational content.Notice: Information contained herein is not and should not be construed as an offer, solicitation, or recommendation to buy or sell securities. The information has been obtained from sources we believe to be reliable; however no guarantee is made or implied with respect to its accuracy, timeliness, or completeness. Authors may own the stocks they discuss. The information and content are subject to change without notice.*Real-time prices by Nasdaq Last Sale. Realtime quote and/or trade prices are not sourced from all markets. © 2000-2019 Investor's Business Daily, Inc. All rights reserved