By Lauren Edmonds For Dailymail.com  Published:  13:23 EST, 12 November 2019   |  Updated:  13:40 EST, 12 November 2019    17View  commentsA Tesla owner claims his car's Autopilot detected a group of ducks crossing the street and automatically swerved to save the unsuspecting animals. In footage captured from a TeslaCam, the vehicle's integrated dashcam feature, a owner of a Tesla Model 3 is cruising down an empty roadway on Autopilot.    The vehicle easily navigates that obstacle-devoid highway at a steady speed, demonstrating the Tesla's ability to travel lengths without human direction. A Tesla Model 3 owner says his car detected a group of ducks crossing the street and avoided them while on Autopilot Suddenly, out of the brush comes a family of ducks attempting to cross the road just as the Tesla turns along the bend. Using one of the eight cameras used to detect incoming objects, the Tesla quickly swerves to the right and barely misses the waddling group. Instantly, the car readjusts itself into the correct lane and continues to drive without any apparent incidents. The Tesla quickly swerves into the right lane before hitting the ducks and then readjusts itself back into the correct path According to the Tesla owner, all the ducks survived.  Tesla Autopilot was first introduced in 2014 as a feature for the Model S, then the Model 3 and later the Model X. The company's website says the Autopilot feature enables the vehicle to steer, accelerate and brake automatically while still within its lane. All new Tesla cars have been outfitted with Full Self-Driving Capability hardware that continually upgrades with new adjustments and software tweaks.  Of the people who took Bloomberg's survey for the Model 3's Autopilot feature, an average score of 4.49 was awarded to 'Autopilot Safety' So far, drivers have logged around 2 billion miles with the feature.  The Tesla Model 3 has been a hit among owners and received high ranks during a survey from Bloomberg. The survey found that despite 13 percent of owners who said Autopilot has put them in 'a dangerous situation,' more than 90 percent say the feature makes them safer. Owners rated Autopilot safety an average score of 4.49 and the overall Autopilot feature a 4.43. Tesla CEO Elon Musk (pictured) says the company's vehicles improve from 'real-world' training and get data from owners The only category that fell below a four is the 'Navigate on Autopilot Reliability', which came in at a close 3.89. Owners also shared their positive experiences that Tesla CEO Elon Musk can surely use when approached by critics. 'The car detected a pile-up in fog and applied the brakes/alerted driver and began a lane change to avoid it before I took over. I believe it saved my life,' a California driver said. A Colorado owner said: 'A deer jumped in front of me on a dark road at night. By the time my foot moved to the brake pedal, it was already pressed to the floor!' At its best, Tesla vehicles can, 'conduct short and long distance trips with no action required by the person in the driver’s seat.'The Tesla Autopilot feature was introduced in 2014 with the Model S, then the Model 3 and later the Model XHowever, several videos have flooded social media over the last few months showcasing the company's blind spots. Some owners described scary situations when their vehicle seemed to operate on its own accord, despite human interference. A driver in California said: 'During one of its automatic lane changes into a lane behind a semi, it SLAMMED on my brakes for no reason. The cars behind me managed to avoid rear ending me.' Another said: 'It seemed to make risky choices whenever an unusual situation arises, like a missing lane line or a truck merging suddenly into your lane.' 'Sometimes it catches a car on a different lane and, if that car is going significantly slower, will break violently,' a driver in Minnesota said. One shared video shows a Tesla driving on Autopilot before sensors neglect to note a traffic merge and crash the car into a median.Other videos show Teslas' using Autopilot getting into scary close calls, including almost veering off of roads and suddenly breaking for no reason. Two people have died while driving their Tesla's on Autopilot. A Model S owner in Memphis, Tennessee, claims his car had 'a mind of its own' and crashed into the wrong garage.Visanji T. Gala told Inside EVS that he has three garages and his Tesla decided to drive into 'Garage 1' while he was trying to turn into 'Garage 3.'Visanji T. Gala of Tennessee claims his Tesla Model S drove into the wrong garage despite trying to steer in a different direction He said: 'As if possessed by a demon, the Tesla had a mind of its own and decided to go to Garage 1. I hoped it would stop as the door was closed.''I tried hard to steer it to Garage 3 but I had no control over the steering wheel. It just would not budge. I tried to brake but even the brakes did not work.'The Tesla's new Smart Summon feature has also been hotly debated among owners as Musk promised new updates in the coming weeks. The vehicle allegedly broke slammed into a wall, damaging both the structure and the car's exterior  The Smart Summon feature allows owners to use an app on their phones to 'summon' their vehicle to their location. While 76 percent said the Smart Summon was a 'useful feature', less than half said it was reliable enough for everyday drivers.One driver told Bloomberg that the summon feature was like a, 'nervous teenager with a learner’s permit.'While owners say the new Smart Summon feature are useful, less than half say 'it's reliable enough for the average driver' The kinks found in the Smart Summon's armor come from the many variables and unpredictability of parking lots, such as pedestrians, strollers, shopping carts and other vehicles. Also, parking lots are reportedly more likely to inhabit drivers who don't follow  usual driving protocols and road regulations.  In response to naysayers, some of which accuse the CEO of using his customers as guinea pigs, Musk responded that real-world training is the fastest way to end car crashes and vehicular accidents.40,000 America and 1.4 million people globally were killed in car crashes last year alone.    Published by Associated Newspapers LtdPart of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group