The top handle design is presented as a convenient way to tote around an extra power bank -- one that, in the case of Volta, features a USB-C port on the front of the handle offering 7.4v versus the 5v commonly offered by commercial external batteries. When Volta isn't needed as a handle, that component can be removed to use it as an ordinary power bank.The team behind Volta presents the device as being akin to the combination of an NPF-970 battery and a top handle, but as noted by DIY Photography, the claim doesn't quite hold up. The 8,000mAh capacity comes from two 4,000mAh power cells wired in series, which works out to 29.6Wh; Sony's 6,600mAh NP-F970 7.2v battery, on the other hand, features 47.4Wh.Regardless, the Volta is available to back on Indiegogo with pledges starting at $32 USD. Shipping to backers is expected to start in December 2019, assuming the campaign is successful and everything goes according to plan.Via: DIY PhotographyDisclaimer: Remember to do your research with any crowdfunding project. DPReview does its best to share only the projects that look legitimate and come from reliable creators, but as with any crowdfunded campaign, there’s always the risk of the product or service never coming to fruition.Similar product already exists, higher price, but lots more features: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07WS94Y1N/Probably enough to charge a phoneIt's not meant to charge 5V devices. If it were, it would charge most large capacity phones twice. The product is intended for cinematic tools.I would like to address the 8000mah capacity claim. When creating the video, I have simply gone off the fact that I am using two 4000mah cells and added them. It was a mistake. I will correct it. On the other hand, there are 5000mah cells on the market which would add up to a 38WH capacity (nearly identical to a NPF 750). Also, I've gone ahead and opened up a poll with regards to the output plug and by the looks of it, we will be changing it to a Dtap which opens up the possibility to use a splitter and power multiple accessories at once.I'm pretty sure the Chinese have already done something like this, remember seeing it while browsing for 11.11 sales.Not too interested in this top grip thingy but i'd love to see an extended size battery grip for my G9. Instead of it having space for one ILC battery, make it bigger with a rechargeable 10k mAh cell inside. That's something i would pay for.Great idea!I hope those 21700 are the variety with built-in over/under voltage protection circuitry. I dont think I want to be holding this when the battery explosively vents.I do like the idea of this, but I would maybe want to just mount the tube on the side or under the rig instead of in the carry handle.Hey TechJedi, we're opting for the Samsung 40t cells and the handle itself has a voltage regulator built in!Cool, thanks for clarifying. Is that regulator handling both the output voltage regulation to the device and also ensuring the 40t cells dont ever get too low or too high voltage from discharging/charging?I thought tesla's used 18650s. When did they switch to 21700s?They use both.Model 3 is the first, most likely any new model going forward will be 21700.Great idea. The fact that it is balanced in a handle is much handier than using a power adapter array that throws off the balance in my rig (like the Atmos Powerstation). Anything to reduce the unbalanced load is a good thing in my books.If you are PK to buy 100 of these you can order them from China for about $19-24 each (for custom design items).I do order custom power banks from China as gifts for our customers so know the pricing.In any case, there is nothing there to go wrong shoukd they have desire to make it happen.Hey Rensol, I can assure you the product will make it to market!The post doesn't say if the power bank is USB Power Delivery (USB-PD) compatible?  There are various flavors of USB Power Banks with diffrent specs..  It would be nice to know exactly which specification this is designed to. https://www.usb.org/usbc For example, depending of what type of power bank I use with my X-T3, I can only charge the battery while the camera is off. If I use certain USB-PD power banks, I can supply power while the camera is on.I recently bought 1 of the USB-PD compatible power banks and when I used it, I wondered if any one made a version that would screw into the bottom of the camera so I would not have to put the battery in my pocket.  This may be a better solution if it is indeed USB-PD compatible.They haven't even produced a working concept and yet they expect to ship in December 2019...Hey Retzius, We do have a working prototype but the policy on Indiegogo had some exageratted requirements in order to allow the ticking of the box. Next week I will post a video where I will showcase the different instances where you could benefit from this handle in a real world shooting environment. Stay tuned!And behold their own words: "The project team has not yet produced a working demo for their concept. Their ability to successfully produce a prototype may be affected by product development or financial challenges."Dpreview, you've been played for free advertising, just for an idea at startup.Shocking. So they have a Prototype, which is NOT a prototype.2 possibilities. They buy it ready made in China, the product already more or less exists. So they are retailer. They really have to find a manufacturer to build it. Do a real prototype (not design mock up) and test it. Certifications. Shipping date in December ... that's a fraud.Hey. We do have a working prototype which I will post a video of next week! Stay tuned.Doesn't appear this would be allowed on a plane, in either checked or carry-ons:https://www.faa.gov/hazmat/packsafe/more_info/?hazmat=7Why would it not be? 29.6Wh is under 100. I carry multiple Omni 20+ batteries at 71Wh each when I fly.You can definitely check this. I regularly (minimum 8 flights a year) check 6 PCB Vagabond batteries into the overhead compartments. (I use the Vagabonds to power my computer when we're on location and power is iffy/unavailible).If TSA allows that, they'll allow this.Looks like it would be very usefulThe Fujifilm X-Pro3's new viewfinder, new screen and titanium construction all make for an appealing camera, but perhaps only for a certain type of photographer.Weighing in at just 249g, the Mavic Mini fits in the palm of your hand. You give up a few features in exchange for that tiny size, but we still found it to be a solid performer.The Epson V600 is a reasonably priced scanner aimed at analog film shooters. It's fairly easy to operate and capable of decent image quality, but still easily bested by scans from our local photo lab.The EOS M200 is Canon's new entry-level mirrorless camera. It's easy to use, takes great photos, and crams a big APS-C sensor into one of the smallest camera bodies on the market. We think that's a recipe for success – get all the details in our full review.Sony's a6100 adds powerful autofocus and a touchscreen to its low-cost mirrorless camera. But little inconsistencies mean it's not quite the excellent beginners camera it could be.What's the best camera for shooting landscapes? High resolution, weather-sealed bodies and wide dynamic range are all important. In this buying guide we've rounded-up several great cameras for shooting landscapes, and recommended the best.Whether you make a living out of taking professional portraits, or are the weekend warrior who knows their way around flashes and reflectors, you'll want a camera with high resolution, exceptional autofocus and a good selection of portrait prime lenses. Click through to see our picks.Family moments are precious and sometimes you want to capture that time spent with friends or loved-ones in better quality than your phone can manage. We've selected a group of cameras that are easy to keep with you, and that can adapt to take photos wherever and whenever something memorable happens.What’s the best camera for less than $1000? The best cameras for under $1000 should have good ergonomics and controls, great image quality and be capture high-quality video. In this buying guide we’ve rounded up all the current interchangeable lens cameras costing under $1000 and recommended the best.What's the best camera for under $500? These entry-level cameras should be easy to use, offer good image quality and easily connect with a smartphone for sharing. In this buying guide we've rounded up all the current interchangeable lens cameras costing less than $500 and recommended the best.We follow photographer Micael Bonocore as he tells the story of Igram Askar, a young eagle huntress in Mongolia. Filmed and photographed using the Sony a7R IV.It offers a few benefits for photographers, but ultimately LG's Dual Screen accessory is a multi-tasker's dream come true. It just remains to be seen whether or not it will catch on.A University of Georgia student photographer was knocked unconscious on the sideline after a wide receiver collided with her after going out of bounds.We've updated our guide to the best cameras for landscape photographers with a new overall winner: the Sony a7R IV. Take a look at the full shortlist for all of our picks.The a6100 is Sony's newest entry-level APS-C mirrorless camera. As Chris and Jordan highlight in their review, it features some useful upgrades over to the [apparently immortal] a6000.Check out our gallery of Sony a6100 sample photos captured during this week’s production of DPReview TV. A lawsuit filed by the State of New York accuses electronics retailer B&H Foto & Electronics Corp of alleged tax fraud to the tune of more than $7M.Sigma says the lens will ship 'early December' for $1,099, just in time for a late holiday stocking stuffer.As diplomat William Taylor and State Department official George Kent took their seats in day 1 of the house impeachment hearings this week, our eye was caught by David Burnett, and his custom-made 4 x 5 film camera.Olympus has issued a statement to Chinese financial publication Sina Finance News claiming it will continue 'to work on the improvement of profitability and efficiency in these two business areas,' a direct response to a rumor that stated its imaging division would be shut down within a year.Instagram has been hiding like counts for some users across several regions since earlier this year. Now the trial is expanded to a global scale.From helpful travel accessories to really nice wool socks, we've got some ideas for those who are shopping for a photographer this season.We recently named the Canon EOS M200 our top choice for cameras under $500, and we're recognizing it again – this time as the best easy-to-use camera on the market.The lens features a 1:1 magnification ratio, Tokina's One-Touch Focus Clutch Mechanism and will retail for $429 when it hits shelves on December 6.If you've been anxiously awaiting to find out what Leica's next special-edition camera, is, the wait is over. We've pored over financial reports from Canon, Nikon and Sony, as well as sales figures from CIPA, to see how the three manufacturers stack up against each other and the industry as a whole.Firmware version 2.00 brings Sony's AI-powered Real-Time Animal Eye AF to its flagship bridge camera, the RX10 IV. Facebook has fixed a bug that caused iPhone users' Camera app to open alongside the Facebook app, causing concern that Facebook might be recording users.The world's leading drone manufacturer, DJI, is developing technology that will allow the public to access basic information on drones flying nearby.This year’s overall winner is a humorous image of an adorable lioness getting a little too playful for her own good.Here are 10 photography gifts you'll actually want this year, picked out by photographers for photographers. And yes, it's OK to buy them all.  Sony's a6x00 series (especially the most recent ones) are very good cameras. Yet our in-house contrarian, Richard, isn't convinced their design is well matched to any one type of user.The previous winner of our 'Best cameras under $500' buying guide was the Canon EOS M100, and the recently announced M200 - which offers an improved AF system and 4K video capture - is the obvious choice to take over first place.Today saw the opening of the public phase of impeachment hearings against President Donald Trump. But even before the questions had started, something else caught our eye.The first of the two updates will add 'controls for video recording from Gimbal / Drone via USB communications,' according to Fujifilm.Adobe has posted a video showing a new feature in a forthcoming update to Lightroom for iOS that makes it possible to import photos directly from external storage, such as SD cards and SSDs. The new film stock will be available starting November 22, 2019 in both 35mm and 120 formats. The 16-inch MacBook Pro replaces the previous 15-inch version and can be configured with up to an 8-core Intel i9 processor, maxes out at 64GB of RAM and can be ordered with up to 8TB of internal SSD storage.With its newly improved Super Resolution Zoom, the Pixel 4 makes a case for itself as a replacement for a compact camera with a 4-6x zoom range. And for the most part it succeeds – compacts still have their advantages, but they're pretty much history for most users.Last week Panasonic announced a major firmware update for the G9, adding video features once exclusive to the GH5 series. Does Chris love the autofocus? Can Jordan replace his beloved GH5s? Tune in to find out.