Disney+ is still notably absent from our screens in the UK. Unfortunately, this is because the service won't actually launch in the UK until March 31, 2020. So despite the streaming service already being available in the US, Canada, The Netherlands, Australia, and New Zealand, it would seem UK residents are out of luck.SEE ALSO: The best VPN for Netflix in 2019: Deals and how to watch American Netflix in the UKThis is hard to accept, however, considering The Mandalorian and Baby Yoda are among the highlights for the year, we're getting a serious case of FOMO at the moment. So we've done some digging and found a workaround. Follow these steps, and we will reveal the best method for unblocking Disney+ in the UK.Download a VPNCreate a US Apple ID or a US Google Play Store accountPurchase a digital US gift cardOn an iOS or Android device, create a Disney+ account using a VPNPay with the US gift cardWhen it comes to choosing a VPN specifically for Disney+, we've tested the following; PureVPN, CyberGhost, NordVPN, and ExpressVPN, all of which can successfully stream US Disney+ content at the time of writing.The trouble with Disney+ is that it's currently exclusive to certain countries, and you will require a US address to make an account and pay for the service. This means your VPN is somewhat useless unless you know someone in the US who can set up and pay for the account on your behalf. The workaround for this can be found on the US Apple or Google Play stores. Using your new VPN, you should now be able to connect to a US server. Once on the server, proceed to create a brand-new US Apple ID or Google Play store account. From here you will need to purchase a US gift card with enough credit to cover a Disney+ membership. Depending on where you buy this from, the minimum price ranges from $10 - $15. On Android, these gift cards can be purchased from the US Amazon store and then loaded onto your new US Google account. Continue using your VPN via a US server, and then download the Disney+ app on an iOS or Android device. Proceed to the membership screen and then use the gift card credit as your payment option. Streaming Disney+ content should then be unlocked on this account, and you can proceed on whatever device that works. You'll be admiring Baby Yoda before you know it. PureVPNCyberGhost VPNNordVPNExpressVPN PureVPN subscription options:Five-year Mashable exclusive plan — £1/month, £12/annually (88% off)One month plan — £8.80/month CyberGhost VPN subscription options:3-year plan — £2.10/month, £25.20/annually (80% off)2-year plan — £3.09/month, £37.08/annually1-year plan — £4.59/month, £55.08/annually1-month plan — £10.29/month NordVPN subscription options:3-year plan — £2.82/month, £33.84/annually (70% off)2-year plan — £4.04/month, £48.48/annually1-year plan — £5.66/month, £67.92/annually1-month plan — £9.68/month ExpressVPN subscription options:ExpressVPN 15 month partner exclusive plan — £5.37/month, £64.44/annually (49% off)ExpressVPN 6 month plan — £8/month, £96/annuallyExpressVPN 1 month plan — £10.37/monthHaving a working VPN is vital to streaming any content from outside your current country. This includes US Netflix, Amazon Prime, and most importantly, Disney+. If you want to find out more about VPNs and how best to use one, you should head over to our sister publication PCMag, where you can find out everything you need to know about them, plus what PCMag believes are the top 10 providers. Disney+ is the brand new streaming service from Disney and launched in November 2019. The streaming service contains an incredible catalog of Disney content, including an endless number of classic films, Star Wars entries, and nostalgic TV shows. Exclusives can make or break a streaming service, so you can be certain that many more will be along the way very soon. Currently, one of the most popular titles on the service is the Star Wars series, The Mandalorian, featuring Pedro Pascal in the title role. Ewan McGregor has also confirmed that an Obi-Wan Kenobi series will be featured on Disney+ in the future. Fans can also expect a selection of Marvel shows, with The Falcon and the Winter Soldier coming in 2020, Loki, and WandaVision in spring 2021.For those keeping track, here's the full Mandalorian release schedule for all eight Season 1 episodes:Episode 1 - Tuesday, November 12Episode 2 - Friday, November 15Episode 3 - Friday, November 22Episode 4 - Friday, November 29Episode 5 - Friday, December 6Episode 6 - Friday, December 13Episode 7 - Wednesday, December 18Episode 8 - Friday, December 27Editor's notes: All of the VPN services mentioned have been tested to ensure they work with Disney+. Disney+ functionality is subject to change at any time. If Disney+ functionality changes for any of the VPNs listed, the services will be removed from this list. 
Heads up: All products featured here are selected by Mashable's commerce team and meet our rigorous standards for awesomeness. If you buy something, Mashable may earn an affiliate commission. 
