Tan Youhui, a businessman in Guanxi, China, paid a hitman $282,000 to take out a competitor. But that hitman hired another hitman, offering $141,000 for the contract. That hitman hired another hitman. He subcontracted too. Then that hitman hired another hitman. And that hitman approached the target, a Mr. Wei, and proposed they fake his death, so everyone gets paid and no-one gets hurt. Unfortunately for Tan and all five hitmen, Wei went to the cops.The BBC summarizes:The saga of the subcontracted hitmen dates back to a professional dispute in 2013, when Mr Wei took legal action against Tan's firm, the Nanning Intermediate People's Court said on its website. Scared of losing money fighting a lengthy court case, Tan contacted hitman Xi Guangan and offered him ¥2m ($282,000) to kill Mr Wei. Xi accepted the job but shortly afterwards asked another hitman, Mo Tianxiang, to kill Mr Wei instead, offering him ¥1m. After Mo accepted, Xi renegotiated with Tan to be paid another ¥1m after the killing.  ... [more hitmen] ... Instead of carrying out the murder, Ling met up with Mr Wei in a cafe, told him there was a hit on him and proposed a plan - that the two of them fake the murder. nMr Wei agreed to pose, gagged and bound, for a photo that Ling could take back to Yang Guangsheng - before later reporting the case to the police.The best part: each bad guy in the chain got progressively more lenient sentences, with Tan off to jail for five years and the hit men receiving 42 months, 39 months, 39 months, 36 months and 31 months. Very Fargoesque!A man was arrested off a flight by police Tuesday after allegedly grabbing another passenger’s crotch and causing the captain to divert to the nearest airport after the incident. James Clayton Cholewinski-Boy was charged with abusive sexual contact. The alleged victim, identified as “E.J.” in the complaint, was seated between Cholewinski-Boy and her daughter. Shortly […]Two then-employees of Twitter used their position to provide the Saudi government with information about its critics on the platform, say prosecutors, who have charged them with espionage. The men rifled through “thousands of private accounts seeking personal information” of use to the kingdom’s security forces, reports NPR. Ahmad Abouammo, a U.S. citizen, was a […]Police in Los Angeles said on Tuesday they have recovered some $800,000 worth of stolen prints by the Scottish abstract expressionist and esotericist Benjamin Creme.
Got some aches that a lazy rubdown won’t put a dent in? Give your muscles an early Christmas with these massage guns. If you’ve never tried one, they’re all designed to bring deep tissue relief, and they’re all at Black Friday prices now. JAWKU Muscle Blaster V2 Cordless Percussion Massage Gun This cordless massager exerts […]Just about everybody from small-time app developers to big database administrators loves Linux. But just because it’s open-source doesn’t mean its secrets are open to everybody. For that, you need a comprehensive training program like the Complete Linux System Administrator Bundle. If you’re chasing any kind of career in coding, this is the online regimen […]If you want to be an app developer for Android, there’s never been a better time. Languages like Kotlin are tailor-made for functionality, and the Jetpack suite of tools makes the whole process easier. The only hurdle is learning your way around these tools, and that’s where the Android Jetpack & App Development Certification Bundle […]
Read the rules you agree to by using this website in our Terms of Service.We are a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.Boing Boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. Read about what we do with the data we gather in our Privacy Policy.Who will be eaten first? Our forum rules are detailed in the Community Guidelines.Boing Boing is published under a Creative Commons license except where otherwise noted. Mark Frauenfelder
 Cory Doctorow
 David Pescovitz
 Xeni Jardin
 Rob Beschizza
 Carla SinclairEditorsJason WeisbergerPublisherKen SniderSysadmin About Us
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Forums
 Shop
 Report a Bad Ad
 Shop Support