A Switch Pro controller, dog and cat treat Gold Box, and a 128GB MicroSD card lead off Wednesday’s best deals from around the web.Bookmark Kinja Deals and follow us on Twitter to never miss a deal.Hello, I am here to once again remind you that the only thing that matters in 2019 is Baby Yoda. Disney and Star Wars bid to get us to waste all of our money on Baby Yoda merch is a success. Here’s your newest product to dump your money into – a Pop Socket. Thankfully, this The Child Cup Pop Socket is 50% ($7.50). Yes, you can have little Yoda sipping soup and looking shady attached to your phone 24/7.Baby Yoda Funko Pop! | $9 | AmazonSony makes some of the best noise canceling headphones around, and today only their bargain-friendly Sony WH-XB900N is down to just $128. This is, by far, the cheapest we’ve ever seen these particular cans (about $70 off.)In their review, Gizmodo says that while the noise-canceling isn’t up to par with the higher-end Sony’s, these will still do a solid job and give you terrific sound quality.At this price, it’s not going to last. If you’re shopping around for a great pair of headphones for your upcoming travels, this is the one to get.Sony just released a more affordable set of noise-canceling headphones called the WH-XB900N. The…Today’s Gold Box is lowering the price on a ton of laptops, monitors and tablets. Inside, you’ll find all manner of monitors and laptops from brands like Acer, AOC, and HP starting at just $51. Plus a $150 10.1" Lenovo tablet with a smart dock (which turns it into an psuedo-Echo device) and a 12TB Game Drive for Xbox One for $230.Just remember that these deals are only available today, and the best stuff could sell out early. Of course, there’s a ton of gear here, so make sure to visit the deal page to see all of your options.With excellent noise cancellation and terrific sound quality to boot, Apple’s brand new Apple AirPods Pro are one of the best new tech products of the year and top many people’s wish lists for the holidays.Gizmodo says that the sound quality is “dramatically better than the regular AirPods” and the noise canceling helps improve sound quality but doesn’t necessarily silence the outside world.I’ve never loved the AirPods. That’s mainly because I’m one of the few people whose ears just don’t This current $235 is probably the best we’ll see this year. The Apple AirPods Pro are currently back-ordered, but, if you’re lucky, you’ll have them on time for the holidays.For those blessed with a microSD card slot in their smartphone, you can add lots of space with this $15 SanDisk 128GB microSDXC card. Of course, this card will work with your action cam, dash cam, tablet, or Nintendo Switch, too.Do you have a few stockings to stuff this Christmas? Do yourself a favor and get a pair of cheap, but still good, headphones to pop right into that giant red sock. These TaoTronics Bluetooth Earbuds are only $10 on Amazon when you clip the $2 coupon and use promo code KINJA070. These earbuds have a 120mAh battery that streams music wirelessly for up to 9 hours, with only 2 hours of charge.The best iPad for everyone is back down to just $250 at Best Buy and Target. Unless you really need an iPad Pro, the latest generation tablet is the perfect machine for all the iPad things you want. This model packs a 10.2-inch display, first-gen Apple Pencil support, Smart Connector capabilities for better accessories, and 3GB of RAM. If you want to buy a brand new iPad for not much money, the choice is obvious: get the new…$249 for 32GB is an awesome price for the 32GB model, and $330 on the 128GB model, which gives you a bit more storage wiggle room, is also a terrific deal. If you missed the Black Friday sale, this is a good time to buy. If this is a prospective gift for someone, make sure to order soon so it’ll arrive by Christmas.Still haven’t gotten Christmas lights for your home? What the hell are you waiting for? Snag a 33-foot-long strand of MINGER Fairy String Lights for only $6 when you use promo code 6YZLHHYR. The LED lights come with a two-way control that you can use with your smartphone. The lights have eight scene modes, can operate on a dimmer and timer, and are even IP67 waterproof.This is not your cat writing an article. Or maybe it is. Whatever. Buy your cat a big ol’ box of GREENIES Natural Dental Care Dog Treats while it is $20 off on Amazon. In today’s Gold Box, you can get a bunch of cat and dog treats for cheap.Be sure to check the page, some treats (like these Temptations Jumbo Stuff Treats) have an additional 40% off coupon when you Subscribe & Save.Do you sleep like a human-sized furnace? Give that heat a place to disperse when you sleep, so your pillow is burning hot when you wake up. You can grab yourself a WEEKENDER Ventilated Gel Memory Foam Pillow for $24 (around $12 off) on Amazon. The ventilated cushion design allows for maximum airflow while you’re sleeping.Looking to get some new workout gear ahead of making your New Year’s Resolution? You can snag some great workout attire, thanks to these Mystery Boxes from Olivers. You can get both boxes for 50% off (or more). The $300 box is $150 and the $600 box is $275.Each box will include a combination of the following:Both Olivers Mystery Boxes are available now through 12/18 (while supplies last).Amazon’s running a sale on a boatload of gear for your next adventure. Everything that’ll help you light up your campsite, including headlamps, flashlights, lanterns, and kerosene are on sale.Just note that this is a Gold Box, so these prices will only stick around for a day. While I’ve included a few highlights below, you’ve got a ton of options. So make sure to visit the deal page to see all them. (Just a heads up, some of them have on-page coupons, so keep on the look out for that.)Do gloves just not cut it for keeping your hands warm during the winter? Get yourself a Zippo Hand Warmer for $11 and your hands will never be cold again. Zippo designed this hand warmer so it is sleek enough to fit into any pocket, big or small.Just know, this hand warmer needs to be filled with fluid and lit in order to work properly. The fluid is sold separately.In need of a new coat before the cold weather sets in? Do yourself a favor and shop Jachs’s Puffer Jacket Blowout. You can get a puffer jacket (or vest) starting at only $38 with promo code PFR at checkout. Jachs has a bunch of neutral jacket colors, like navy and olive, and some more adventurous shades, like neon yellow and red.Running low on concealer? Grab some Shape Tape Concealer while Tarte is hosting a Last Chance Sale. Right now, when you spend $60, you’ll get 25% off your order, plus three free minis. The minis are actually a good deal as well, as you’ll get a lipstick, mascara, and eyeliner. Just use promo code MYGIFT at checkout to snag 25% off and those freebies!Didn’t get a jersey for your favorite player during Black Friday or Cyber Monday? Don’t worry, it’s not too late! Fanatics currently has an up to 65% off sitewide sale (though the overall savings are more around 20-30% off). To get your discount, just use promo code TWINKLE at checkout.For some, Batman: The Animated Series is the definitive iteration of the caped crusader and right now you can pick it up in its entirety for a low $42 in Blu-ray and digital. You’ll love its beautiful, art deco-inspired animation style and masterful storytelling, plus you get to see Batman punch his way through his entire rogue’s gallery— which is always a treat.Just remember that this price is only available today, and it will likely sell out before the end of day. So, get yours before The Riddler gets here.Batman contains multitudes, the Caped Crusader’s adventures having unfolded in various iterations…Over the past half century, Batman has had a significant presence in nearly every form of media,…Right now, you can pick up an Echo Dot (3rd Gen) for $1 with a 1 month subscription of Amazon Music Unlimited. Altogether this will cost you about $11 or $9 for Prime members.This is an amazing deal, considering an Echo Dot will typically cost you $25 on a good day. (Of course, you’re obviously paying with more than cash alone with an Echo device. But if you’re already in the Alexa ecosystem, this is a good buy.)Just a reminder, after the 1-month promotional subscription period, your subscription automatically renews at $10/month (or $8/month for Prime members) until you cancel.If you’re a NordVPN customer, you may have heard about a long-undisclosed security breach this week, and thus might be in the market for a new VPN provider. And even if you have no idea what I’m referring to, it might be worth signing up for a VPN service anyway, which can protect your privacy when browsing the web, and even let you access content from certain sites and streaming video providers that aren’t available in your physical location (Love Island, anyone?) You may know what a VPN, or Virtual Private Network, is; you probably don’t use one. You really…Hackers have busted into servers of at least three popular VPN services—NordVPN, VikingVPN, and…Private Internet Access has long been our readers’ favorite VPN service thanks to its low prices, its speed, and its excellent apps for every major platform. And now with the news of the NordVPN hack, they’re offering the best price we’ve ever seen on an annual subscription: $29 for the whole year. That’s $10 less than it’s been previously, and the best part is that your subscription will renew every year at the same $29 price, as long as you don’t cancel.Do you have a little (or big) Disney lover living in your house? You can make their Christmas extra magical when you shop the Disney Toys Gold Box on Amazon. There are a wide variety of toys available, like Mr. Potato Head, a stuffed Olaf, and more.Just remember, this is a Gold Box sale, which means the prices are for today only and while supplies last.If you own a Nintendo Switch, you’ll need a Switch Pro Controller. Whether you’re playing Overwatch or any other competitive game, the Joy-Con simply won’t cut it. While they’re fun, Joy-Con just aren’t comfortable enough to play for long periods of time.If you want my advice, use the Switch Pro Controller most of the time and save the Joy-Con for when you don’t have any other choice. Better still, this $55 price is the lowest price we’ve ever seen. So get yours today.Kitchen sets are cool and all, but they’re totally old news at this point. Get your kid something new and exciting. The Melissa & Doug Fresh Mart Grocery Store is marked down to $121 on Amazon as a Gold Box. Teach them to clip coupons early!Just remember, since this is a Gold Box item, that means the price is for today only and while supplies last.Do you like free money? Who doesn’t! If you were planning to get a Nintendo Switch this Christmas, get some Amazon money while you’re at it. Right now, when you get the upgraded Nintendo Switch with Gray Joy-Con or Neon Blue and Neon Red Joy-Con, get $30 Amazon credit when you use promo code D3E2CDJ6GB6S.If you’re looking for a terrific pair of budget ANC, Bluetooth headphones, the Anker Soundcore Life Q20 are just $40 right. Usually selling for about $60, this is the best discount we’ve seen on these particular cans, no coupon code necessary.In his review, Shep said that these cans are sonically impressive compared to its sub-$100 competitors:The 40mm drivers are Hi-Res Audio Certified, which depending on who you ask, may or may not mean all that much in practice. What it does mean that the drivers can hit frequencies as high as 40 kHz, and not many Bluetooth headphones in this price range can make that claim. There’s also a “Bass Up” mode which, you guessed it, boosts the bass on demand like you’re wearing Beats circa 2014.I admit that I like it. Again, they don’t sound as good as a $300 pair of headphones from the big guys, but they’re the best sounding ANC over-ears I’ve tried in this price range, by a decent margin.For audiophiles who demand the very best, there will always be high-end Bose and Sony headphones…These headphones offer Hi-Res Audio, four noise cancelation microphones, Bluetooth 5.0, and excellent battery life (40 hours with ANC and 60 hours without.)If you’re traveling this holiday season, this is a no-brainer. Pick yours up before these inevitably goes away.Any competitive gamer worth her salt considers three main things when shopping for a monitor: refresh rate, response time, and price. This $250 Dell 24" LED QHD G-Sync Gaming Monitor delivers on three.This G-Sync monitor offers 2560 x 1440 resolution with 16:9 aspect ratio, 1 ms response time, and 165Hz refresh rate. Plus, it offers really thin bezels and both HDMI and DisplayPort inputs.Anker’s EufyCam home security systems have been a hit with our readers, and right now, Best Buy is discounting their latest 2-camera system by $70. This is the first discount we’ve seen on this particular 1080p wire-free system.When we first bought our house, my wife insisted on a security system to warn us of any intruders.…These promise an entire year’s worth of battery life, support two-way intercom, and can capture a year’s worth of recordings with no monthly fees. This IP67-rated weatherproof camera can stream footage directly to your smartphone and can work with Apple’s Homekit, Google Assistant and, of course, Alexa.This is a limited time offer on this newly released product. So act fast.Do you have any parties coming up soon where you’re in charge of bringing some beer? Don’t show up with warm beer. Keep it cool in this Lifewit Collapsible Cooler Bag. You can get the Black and Grey bag for $20 when you clip the $5 coupon and use promo code 3QIWC4PF at checkout. The bag can carry up to 32 cans of beer, so your holiday party will be lit AF.Does your dog not give a shit if it is dark and cold outside? Do they still want to go for a walk anyhow? Yeah, same here. My dog would go for a walk in the middle of a blizzard at 2 AM if I let him. That obviously isn’t safe, but if you need a good harness for a nighttime walk, one of our readers’ favorite harness brands has a new product. The Rabbitgoo Dog Harness with LED Light is currently only $8 on Amazon.The LED battery can be illuminated for 10 hours, per a 2-hour charge. The harness available for $8 in a size large, which fits a chest girth of 27” - 32”. We’ve written about the original Rabbutgoo in the past, as it has over 6,000 reviews on Amazon and is one of the top-rated models.Kyoku isn’t a household name, but our team really likes the Daimyo steel chef’s knife. I mean, what’s not to like? It’s super sharp, well-made and it’s incredibly beautiful to look at.Here’s what some guy named Shep thought:The Kyoku Daimyo is built around gold-standard Japanese VG10 steel core (though it is assembled in China), which should hold an edge a little longer than the Mac’s slightly softer proprietary steel. On the flipside, that means it’s a bit more prone to chipping if you throw it in the dishwasher (please don’t do this) or use a hard cutting board, though you’re unlikely to damage it on a good, soft butcher block. The most striking thing about the steel, though, is just how gorgeous it is. Polished to a mirror finish, you can see every gorgeous ripple, like a Valerian Steel sword from Game of Thrones. It’s stunning.Not to brag, but I’ve used good chef’s knives for about as long as I’ve been cooking for myself. I…They were also a hit with our readers, so Kyoku is dropping the price once again to a low $70 if you use the coupon on the page and the promo code KYOKUU42.If you have had an expensive face cream or foundation in your shopping cart at Sephora for weeks, it is time to get your credit card out. Their Holiday Beauty Insider Sale has officially begun. Beauty Insiders can get $15 off any order of $75 or more, while VIB members can save $20, and Rogue members can save $25.Sephora Rouge members earn extra benefits, like early access to sales, free shipping, free full-sized products, and free makeovers. Insider members don’t need to hit any spending threshold and it is free to sign up (so sign up now!). This promotion is valid to all Sephora Beauty Insiders from now through December 17.Anastasia Beverly Hills Black Friday Vault | Sephora and UltaThe craziness of Black Friday and Cyber Monday might be over, but holiday savings are still here. J. Crew Factory is stacking up their savings, so you can shop for everyone on your list. Right now, almost everything is 50% off, plus clearance is an extra 50% off and you can get 20% off your order when you use promo code FAST. Some items are excluded from this sale.Looking to get a new pair of boots that will survive all this rain, snow, and sleet? Snag a pair of Bean Boots (men’s or women’s) while L.L. Bean is having a 20% off sale. The discount applies to your entire cart, even sale items, when you use promo code GIFT20 at checkout.Add two smart plugs to your smart home for a low $20. These plugs can work without a hub, and with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and Microsoft Cortana for voice control. Better still, you can also schedule the plug to automatically switch on and off, which can be pretty eco-friendly.KitchenAid’s beautiful Cold Brew Coffee Maker is down to just $60 at Amazon. This 28oz stainless steel coffee maker usually hovers around $80, so this is a great time to buy.For some, cold brew/iced coffee season is ending but for the rest of us, year-rounders, this is a delight. Not only will the coffee last in the fridge for up to two weeks, this coffee maker makes 14 servings.This week’s cold brew Co-Op featured a highly caffeinated comment section full of controversy. Some Everyone has raved about weighted blankets all year. If you haven’t gotten one yet, now is your chance. And you can get one for the entire family! Weighted Idea has a variety of blankets on sale, you can get a blanket for adults for as cheap as $38 right now.You can get a floral pattern, 15-pound 48"x 78" weighted blanket for $43 when you clip the $10 coupon. A 20-pound bamboo cooled weighted blanket is only $74 when you clip the $35 coupon.If you’ve been on the market for some children’s weighted blankets, you can get a 10-pound, 41" x 60" pale blue blanket for only $36. The pink animal print blanket of the same weight and size is $35. If you want to ease your children into a weighted blanket, 10 pounds could be too heavy. You can opt for a 5-pound blanket, this white fox pattern is only $30.You can sort through all of Weighted Idea’s blankets to see the various patterns and colors that they have on sale.Pick up the smallest multi-tool in the world, The Claw for just $15. Whether you want to crack open a cold one with the boys, tighten a screw, or shred through an Amazon package, this bad boy is pound-for-pound one of the most useful products ever.. Weighing in at a measly 0.0044lbs, this titanium claw will disappear into your keychain until you need it. And right now, you can pick it up for a measly $15, down from its usual $30.Does traveling for the holidays stress you the fuck out? You’re not alone. Sunday Scaries is here to save the season. You can score 15% off sitewide when you use promo code HOLIDAYSCARIES at checkout. You can stock up on their bestsellers, like CBD gummies, monthly bundles, tinctures, and more.Unlike a vast majority of the offers you’ve seen online this week, this deal is here for a while. You can get 15% off now through December 24, 2019.Looking for a classy and functional gift? Right now, you can take 15% off Aged & Ore’s entire line of products with the promo code CHEERS15-HL96LW. Whether you want to invest in a travel decanter or one of their hand-blown cocktail glasses, this is an awesome time to buy. These products rarely go on sale.Update: This campaign ends this weekend, and the earlybirds are sold out, but you can still…Aged & Ore’s Duo Glasses were a Kickstarter hit back in February, and now, you can buy as many as…Have you ever grabbed something out of your closet and only realized it wasn’t the color you thought it was when you got to work? Stop fumbling through your dark closet (or other light-lacking spaces in your home) when you get the LED Closet Motion Sensor Light. You can snag this for $16 on Amazon when you use promo code 36AJGFO7.When does “Monday” mean an entire week? When it’s got the word “Cyber” in front of it. For Cyber Monday, Anker is knocking $40 off its truly wireless earbuds for the entire week. That doesn’t guarantee they’ll stay in stock all week, though so if you know you want ‘em, grab ‘em. Just make sure to clip the coupon on the page to get the best price.Eufy makes some of our readers’ favorite vacuums, and this eufy BoostIQ RoboVac 11S Max (their best one) is down to just $170. The 11S is super quiet, slim, and it sucks up anything in its path with ease. It boasts an awesome 100 minutes of continuous run time, and it can zoom under couches and other furniture where your stick vac just can’t.This current price is the best price we’ve ever seen on this particular model. Just make sure to clip code on page to get the discounted price.We received a ton of nominations this week for the best robotic vacuum, but now it’s time for one…While convenient, robovacs won’t completely replace your main vacuum. But you can go a lot longer without having to do the job yourself. And today is a great time to buy, just in case you skipped the Black Friday madness.Contributor and Researcher, Kinja Deals at the InventoryCommerce Editor at The Inventory.Ana works as a commerce editor, but her dream job would be making her senior Yorkie, Tyrone, Insta famous.